HOWTO: Booking flights
======================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: Stuttgart, Germany

Introduction
------------

At some point in time there will be a point when you need to book a flight for
yourself or other persons. This is a rather complicated action and this HOWTO
will assist you with the basic steps that are required to book a flight.

The book a flight you will need several things: patience, more patience, some
paper and some intelligence. The next sections in this HOWTO will explain all
in detail.

Required steps
--------------

Step one: Deciding where to go to
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This is of course very important, without a pace to go booking a flight is
rather useless. The fastest way to get to your destination by is in a straight
line, from A to B. A straight line is NOT a travel plan with 6 transfers at
several airports, especially make sure that none of your flight plans need a
transfer at Charles de Gaule in Paris, France.  Write your source and
destination location on paper. Your travel agent will need it.

Step two: The date to travel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When you need to fly to a conference somewhere in the world, it would really
help to book your flight so that you are in time for your conference. Being in
time means that you should be at your destination location around 1 day before
the conference starts to make sure you don't have to much problems with your
jetlag. Watch especially that you are booking the correct month; it doesn't
really help to book your flight for July, when the conference is in June.

Step three: With how many people are we going
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

After you decided where to go you can make of people who are coming with you.
For instance you might want to ask your girlfriend to come along. It would be
nice if you were able to book the same flight for both yourself and your
girlfriend, so that you don't have to wait on you destination location for
over 7 hours.

Conclusion
----------

I hope these three steps will guide you on the next planning of booking a
flight.

Resources
---------

Most of this material was provided by Georg Richter, and especially written
for my friend Zak Greant.

.. _`xdebug`: http://xdebug.org/
.. _`PHP`: http://www.php.net/

