ActiveState Awards
==================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: Groessen, The Netherlands

Apperently I've won the `ActiveState Activators' Choice Award`_
together with Jani.
*"The Active Awards are presented annually, to honor members of the open source
community who actively contribute to open languages and display excellence in
their programming efforts. Programmers' Choice Award winners were nominated
and chosen by the open source community. Activators' Choice Award winners were
chosen by ActiveState's development team".* The reason they posted for awarding
me and `Jani`_ was this:

	Derick is heavily involved in developing processes for QA and Release
	Management, and Jani has been one of the largest contributors to QA and support
	of the Bug database. The contributions of these two PHP developers towards the
	progress and quality of PHP over the past year has been outstanding. They
	deserve the ActiveAwards for their relentless work in an area that is often
	difficult and unending.

	-- http://www.activestate.com/Corporate/Awards/ActiveAwards.html

Right, working on QA and bughunting is not always difficult, but it is
certainly unending, but that's normal for such an moving target
as `PHP`_. Luckily PHP is getting more and more stable in 
spite of the `Security Update Release`_
that was recently issued. Lets go for PHP 4.3.0 now!

.. _`xdebug`: http://xdebug.org/
.. _`PHP`: http://www.php.net/
.. _`ActiveState Activators' Choice Award`: http://www.activestate.com/Corporate/Awards/ActiveAwards.html
.. _`Jani`: mailto:sniper@php.net
.. _`Security Update Release`: http://www.php.net/release_4_2_2

