User questions and support fees
===============================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: Groessen, The Netherlands

A friend of me sent in a "stupid user" question. However I found out later
the the thing this user attempted was even more funnier. That is why there
is no new "stupid" user entry, but a full blown blog entry.

It started all with the following conversation:

	Dear Mr. Hughes,

	Could you please send me the Zip
	extension for PHP, already compiled
	for Microsoft Windows as a PHP
	library?

	-- Willie

	
	Hi Willie,

	I require a consultancy fee of 200 USD for these services.

	-Sterling

	-- Sterling Hughes

That sounds like a new tactic for Sterling, not charging for code, but for
things that users can get for free :)

Of course it was not a totally expected to get such a response from an Open
Source devellopper and decided to search to find support elsewhere.  He was even
so nice to tell Sterling that:

	
	Hi Sterling,

	Fortunately I found a PHP class on the WWW that does what I need.

	Thanks, anyway...

	-- Willie

Quoting Sterling on his response: "Isn't it nice how the respect your time
enough to annoy you when in *under* 5 minutes users can find the answer when it
comes to shelling out money?". It's pretty sad actually, but it gets even
worse :) A few days later I found a new comment in the "Assorted Funny User Questions". Yes, you
see that correctly. He found support on my "forum"!  Of course nobody responded
yet :)

.. _`xdebug`: http://xdebug.org/
.. _`PHP`: http://www.php.net/

