Routing is a profession
=======================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: Dieren, The Netherlands

*[21-05-2002 09:27]* Mr S., a customer reports that his ADSL
connection doesn't work anymore. The first thing I did was pinging his
machine, but of course this timed-out. The next thing I tried was a
traceroute:

::
	
	[root@kossu /root]# traceroute 62.131.156.x
	traceroute to 62.131.156.x (62.131.156.x), 30 hops max, 38 byte packets
	1  vuurmuur (10.1.1.1)  0.693 ms  0.274 ms  0.178 ms
	2  10.0.0.138 (10.0.0.138)  1.862 ms  2.206 ms  1.285 ms
	3  195.190.241.151 (195.190.241.151)  12.833 ms  12.523 ms  13.047 ms
	4  195.190.245.70 (195.190.245.70)  22.285 ms  23.375 ms  22.010 ms
	5  195.190.245.69 (195.190.245.69)  21.932 ms  20.835 ms  22.726 ms
	6  10.26.2.3 (10.26.2.3)  30.100 ms  30.902 ms  27.864 ms
	7  * * *


Yup, you see it correctly, there is a 10.26.2.3 address there. Clearly
a problem with some router in the ISP's network.

*[21-05-2002 09:33]* I started calling the provider, `Planet Internet (+31 33 454 0100)`_, and told them what
the problem is. After some annoying 'what is your customer number'
bullshit they still didn't have *any* clue what I tried to tell
them, so I asked for the second line helpdesk, those people are usually
more clueful. Again, I explained the problem to Richard and showed them
a traceroute. They could see that the same hop was faulty, and decided
after 20! minutes of asking around that it is a problem with the telco's
infrastructure and decided to feed them a ticket. So they did and told
me somebody from `KPN Telecom`_ would call be back
about *their* problem.  I wondered what this had to do with the
infrastructure, because it seemed clear to my that a router was doign
bad things... but a la, I do not know everything of their mess so I gave
them the benefit of the doubt.

*[21-05-2002 16:28]* Mr Merol of `KPN Telecom`_ called me to discuss the problem. After around 45 minutes (yeah,
they're very fast at KPN) we came to the conclusion that it was not a
problem in KPN's network, cause the machine of the customer logged in
every 10 minutes. So they decided to give the ticket back to `Planet Internet`_. It was also clear to me that it indeed
was a problem with the routers of the ISP (Planet).

*[21-05-2002 17:23]* I gave them some time and then called `Planet`_ again, but they didn't got the ticket back yet.
So they went looking for it (yeah, it's by email, but looking for it
takes 15 minutes for them) and of course they couldn't find it. But they
decided to check again... and after 25 minutes of static I decided the
drop the phone and go home... I've had enough of them for one day...

*[22-05-2002 08:41]* Well assuming an email doesn't take more than
15 hours to travel from one building to another I decided to call `Planet Internet`_ again. I explained the problem again to
a nice girl, and she reviewed the ticket send back by KPN. Instandly by
reading the word 'router' she told me that because it is a problem with
the customer's router she couldn't help us and that we should try to
connect with a Windows 95 box. I was a little confused by this and
explained her that *we* don't have a router and that the KPN dude
meant a router on their (the ISPs network). Promptly she said *'We
don't have routers'*. Now I expect helpdesk employees to be dumb, but
not this stupid, so I asked for 2nd line helpdesk. Mr Pim didn't want to
help me and send the ticket back to KPN for further analyses. Of course
I didn't agree with that and demanded to listen to me and try to make a
tracerout themselves. After a ten minute speech about procedures I
finally got him to do a traceroute and YES YES YES he thought that
10.26.2.3 is not a normal IP address either. So his action was to make
the tech people solve it... that didn't happen until 18:00, but atleast
it works again :)

.. _`xdebug`: http://xdebug.org/
.. _`PHP`: http://www.php.net/
.. _`Planet Internet (+31 33 454 0100)`: http://www.planet.nl
.. _`KPN Telecom`: http://www.kpntelecom.nl
.. _`Planet Internet`: http://www.planet.nl
.. _`Planet`: http://www.planet.nl

