Mail etiquette
==============

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: Dieren, The Netherlands

The use of e-mail is a skill that many people don't master. By writing e-mail
to me, and to other persons, they manage to annoy me, piss me of and even
insult me just by not thinking on how the reciever of the e-mail might percieve
it.

Take for instance the *subject* in email messages. Gore didn't invent
that so that it just can be ignored. USE it, damnit! Message with no subjects
move to /dev/null immediately and I tend to ignore message with stupid subjects
like 'reminder' or 'urgent: I need this' or 'help' or '[customername]'. This
won't help me finding back a message between 500 others. Subjects should be
short, descriptive and help me find things back. For example '[customer] has
called, please call back' or 'problems with connection to the database' are
just fine. Some people, especially co-workers, just don't understand this, even
after saying around 50 times how to do it.

Well after the subject *appealed* me, and the message didn't end up in
/dev/null, I get severly annoyed by messages like:

::
	
	Please call [customer] back.


That is without greeting, without providing information who called me, what
(s)he wanted and signature. This kind of stuff doesn't help me at ALL! Be
spefic in email so that I can prepare myself calling back. Something like this
would be fine:

::
	
	Hello,
	
	[customer] called and asked what the status of his site is. Please call him
	back.
	
	[co-worker-name]


This message looks nice, provides information, and I know who I can kick if
the information was not correct.

I love messages in all *caps*. This is the fastest way to delete your
message. It is rude and NOBODY REALLY LIKES TO READ TEXT IN ALL CAPS. I just
got this email:

::
	
	PLEASE WEEK 14 UNTIL 17
	
	I AM WAITING ON IT
	
	AFZ [name]


and this from a chick who needs something from me. Well, if you need something
from me she should use: a. A subject, b. NO FRICKING CAPS, c. Be patient. I have
more to for other customers which pay better.

This brings me on the next subject, *patience*. Don't ever expect me to
write back within 5 minutes. I won't ever answer you immediately, unless 1. i'm
having an email conversation with you, 2. it's very urgent, 3. you're an
extremely hot chick. Message with the words 'urgent', 'fast', and 'now' in it
only annoy me and cause me to respond much later, or even never. Sending the
same message twice, or with the word 'reminder' in it won't help. I hate this!

Okay, that was some ranting about content of emails, but there is more! Like
*auto-responders*. I really don't appreciate receiving an 'I got your
message' email without useful information in it 10 seconds after I send you
a message. Just answer me, doesn't need to be NOW, but telling me you got my
message only wastes bandwidth.

*Replying* to emails is a special profession too. If you reply to my
emails:

*Don't delete* ALL my text and show me only your response. I forget things
and retaining the relevent original parts of my message eases processing your
reponse a lot.

Be *relevent* to the original email if you retain the same subject line.
It's much easier to seperate different discussions if the subject is different.
Mixing different subjects in an email is also a big no-no.

The last thing I want to rant about is that you need to *tell who you are*.
Nothing is more annoying than having to guess who you are. Thus, set your 
mailer to use your FULL name. I know 20 Eric's so specify which one you are.
Names like 'info' don't help me either. Also, set your From: address correctly
so that I can reply by pressing 'reply' in my mailer and don't have to search
for your email addres and type it in manually. If you are too lazy to write
your email addres down, then I'm as lazy too.

This concludes my ranting about email, the best way is: 'Use common sense' and
try not to piss me off. That won't help you getting a response.

.. _`xdebug`: http://xdebug.org/
.. _`PHP`: http://www.php.net/
.. _`PHP 4.2.1RC1`: http://www.php.net/~derick/

