Weekly babble - part #1
=======================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: Groessen, The Netherlands

As there are no big things happenings right now I'll be putting some
minor things here. As first I'd like to apologize to Mr Zak for my `howto on booking flights`_. I had the great
pleasure on booking some flights for myself, and of course (Murphy is
everywhere) I fucked it up. Instead of booking a flight from  Trondheim
(that's in Norway) to Amsterdam, I booked the wrong way around. Luckily
the guys at the travel agency could fix it quickly for me.

Then the *Manuel phenomenon* happened again, with some very annoying
posts to the PHP-QA list he tried to annoy everybody again. Of course
this succeeded very well. (See the update `here`_).

Then we have had *Independence Day* in the US of A. No terrorist
attacks were carried out, atleast that's what the FBI was telling.
There was some shooting incident at LAX, and that may be classified as a
terrorist attack against the state of Israel. You can find some
interesting insight on Israel and this situation below:

	Let's put it this way. The fact that there are people trying to cross
	the Egyptian border into Israel, who usually get caught either by the
	Egyptian army or by the IDF and admit in their questioning that they
	wanted to get inside in order to either shoot Israelis or blow
	themselves up in the presence of Israelis and the fact that on the other
	side of the world, an Egyptian person did exactly that, and not to some
	random Lufthansa or Swiss counter, but to the El Al counter, it's not
	rocket science to compute that those trying to cross the borders are
	terrorists, even though they're not 'organized', and this guy in LA
	is one just the same.  You know that most of the suicide bombers are not
	'organized'?  They either prepare their own bomb belt, or get it from
	someone a day before they blow themselves up. It's organized on the
	nation level, as far as anti west, and primarily anti-Israeli propaganda
	when the 'small person' just gets up and does something about it,
	it's too late. And it's a part of the overall effort.
	-- Zeev Suraski

	Let's make a (currently) imaginary experiment: Let's say someone
	downtown Boston wakes up tomorrow, tunes in to whatever Osama has to say
	believes in it wholeheartedly, goes to his work room in the back and
	prepares a big ass bomb and blows himself up in a busy shopping mall
	(something which is much closer to reality than some care to think).  Is
	he a random whacko, or a terrorist?
	-- Zeev Suraski

	The organization in this case is fundamental Islam and the fierce anti
	Israeli and anti-west propaganda in most of the Arab states.  That's
	the bond, and it's stronger than you may think.  As I wrote a friend a
	few minutes ago - Terrorism is when someone gets up in the morning and
	goes out killing people, typically indiscriminantly, because of
	political or racial views he may hold.  That it.  It doesn't have to be
	planned, it doesn't have to be big.  It can be just a stupid
	Palestinian girl trying to slay a Jewish Yeshiva student with a box
	cutter in the suburbs of Jerusalem, and it can be a well trained Saudi
	using the same box cutter to drive a plane into the twin towers.
	They're both terrorists.  What drives them is identical.  The rest is
	details (important details, no doubt, but not important or even relevant
	to their tagging as terrorists).
	-- Zeev Suraski

.. _`PHP Bug Hunt Event`: http://www.php.net/~derick/bugpacks.html
.. _`xdebug`: http://xdebug.org/
.. _`PHP`: http://www.php.net/
.. _`howto on booking flights`: http://www.derickrethans.nl/20020608.php
.. _`here`: http://www.derickrethans.nl/ppl_lemos.php

