Patent issues revised
=====================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: Dieren, The Netherlands

Apparently the EU is not totally democratic either. A few months ago the
`Software Patents Working Group`_ of the `Foundation for a Free Information
Infrastructure`_ managed to lobby succesfully against software patents and
managed that the EU Parliament restricted `patentability`_ of software. But
`now`_ the EU Council just send that agreement to the scrap heap and made a
draft behind close doors to allow `direct patentability of computer programs,
data structures and process descriptions.`_, which is something truly evil as
it breaks with the traditional system of patent law.

Luckily there are a few `MEPs`_ who are rallying against this insult of the
European Parliament. It was bound to happen of course with Ireland being the
chair of the EU, with a website `sponsorred`_ by Micro$oft. So what can *you*
do? Go to `this`_ site and sign up for the `Call for Action II`_.  You can also
start calling your MEP, and make sure to vote for an anti-patent candidate in
the june 10's European Parliament elections. (In the Netherlands for example
`Johanna Boogerd`_).  But also, spreading the word about this blatent violation
of democracy and make sure there is more coverage in the press is always a good
thing.

.. _`Software Patents Working Group`: http://swpat.ffii.org
.. _`Foundation for a Free Information Infrastructure`: http://ffii.org
.. _`patentability`: http://swpat.ffii.org/news/03/plen0924/index.en.html
.. _`now`: http://swpat.ffii.org/news/04/cons0507/index.en.html
.. _`direct patentability of computer programs, data structures and process descriptions.`: http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/europarl0309/cons0401/index.en.html#prog
.. _`MEPs`: http://swpat.ffii.org/news/04/cons0507/index.en.html#reag
.. _`sponsorred`: http://www.eu2004.ie/sitetools/sponsorship.asp
.. _`this`: http://swpat.ffii.org/group/todo/index.en.html
.. _`Call for Action II`: http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/europarl0309/demands/index.en.html
.. _`Johanna Boogerd`: http://www.johannaboogerd.nl/

