LinuxTag 2004
=============

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: Karlsruhe, Germany

LinuxTag 2004 was held in Karlsruhe from June 23rd to June 26th. I
left my place in the Netherlands a day earlier to help with setting up the LAMP
Area booth. This year Georg Richter did an excellent job to gather AMP-related
projects and companies to fill a shared booth including a speaker area. Besides
`eZ	systems`_ four other companies: `Zend`_, `100 days`_, `ThinkPHP`_ and
`MySQL`_.

The first day of the conference, Wednesday, was quite
uninteresting with only a few people wandering around the
fairgrounds. The talk I head on debugging PHP with
`Xdebug`_ was unfortunately only attended by a
few interested people. But there was one highlight of the day, when the
Netherlands qualified for the quarter final of the European Soccer
Championship and the Germans did not make it. Wearing an orange
t-shirt didn't make the Germans happier ;-).

Thursday wasn't much more crowded either, but it
*was* more interesting. At the end of the day, Jan Wildeboer of
the `FFII`_ led the demonstration against 'No
Software Patents' which was a success with about 900 people
participating. The march from the fairgrounds to the 'Marktplatz'
was witnessed by a couple of policemen and a few dozen interesting
Germans. Arriving at the 'Marktplatz' a few speakers, including
Florian Müller of MySQL, once more explained the problems of
software patents.

Because free beer goes together hand in hand with free speech, the
people from the LAMP Area where invited by
`MySQL`_ to join a "free beer" evening in
Vogelbrau in Ettlingen.

Starting on Friday was a bit of a problem after all the beer, but
fortunately the day went quickly with much more attendees then the
two previous days. The same was true for the first part of
Saturday, but around 4 in the afternoon we packed up and went back
to the hotel to have dinner. The evening was filled with laughter
where `Ken`_, `Wez`_, myself
and some other people where telling all sorts of anecdotes.

On Sunday we left the hotel around 9.30 and began our trip back to
Skien in Norway. Airport Frankfurt Hahn is about two and a half
hours of driving from Karlsruhe, but it is the place from which
RyanAir flies to Torp-Sandefjord (or Oslo as they call it). While
RyanAir is cheap, it's obviously not a company with a lot of
service. Anyway, we made it on the plane on time and managed to
save big time on the alcohol from the tax-free shop.


.. _`Xdebug`: http://xdebug.org
.. _`PHP`: http://www.php.net/
.. _`eZ	systems`: http://ez.no
.. _`Zend`: http://zend.com
.. _`100 days`: http://100days.de
.. _`ThinkPHP`: http://mayflower.de
.. _`MySQL`: http://mysql.com
.. _`FFII`: http://swpat.ffii.org
.. _`Ken`: http://ken.coar.org
.. _`Wez`: http://netevil.org

