PHP Look Back 2004
==================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: Dieren, the Netherlands

Hello! Here is this years look back, it takes a little more work then Zend's
weeklies, and I can not say that it is 100% objective but it should give a
fairly good overview of this years developments in PHP. Here we go...

The year 2004 started in January with
`Andi wanting to release PHP 5 RC1`_ and Pierre-Alain
`announcing pecl/date`_ which is still not
finished, but that's more my fault ;-). A couple of days later
`Andi started another thread`_ on "Ability to lower PHP memory
usage" where he suggested to remove a couple of functions from
ext/standard because they were hardly used. The thread went on for a
while without concluding if it was a good idea (less memory) or not
(more headaches and installation diversity). We also had a nice thread
on SimpleXML in which Sterling wanted (and changed it) back to
`it's basics`_. We also `voted`_ to make SPL part of the
standard PHP 5 distribution. And some `guy`_ wanting to have the $
as an optional thing in front of variables.

In February we had our first thread on `Apache 2 and threads`_,
certainly not the last one. We also decided on `including SOAP`_
into PHP 5 after dicussing `RC1`_ again. We saw also some
interesting behavior with "echo -2147483648/-1" `giving a FPE`_.
At the end of the month we
`discussed problems with signatures for inherited methods`_.

March `started`_ with more talks on `RC1`_ and we decided to
hold off until some `little problems`_ were fixed. We were also
getting some `problems`_ with our bugs and master servers hosted at
Redundant. Later we would move our bug system (and other services) to
new servers. Boulat `mailed`_ the internals list about a new
security related directive for PHP. Ilia `answered`_ that no new
features are added to PHP 4.3.x any more, besides this there is also a
architectural reason for it, and thus nothing was added in the end. John
started a topic on `"Studlycaps and MySQLi"`_ with "Not to start a
big flame war here...", but that didn't help. A long thread we had
discussing if the new MySQLi extension should use suckyCaps for it's
method and property names or not. In the end we ended not using the more
readable underscore seperation as Georg smartly denied to change it.

On the first day of April Andi called for both `PHP 5 RC2`_ and
`PHP 4.3.5pl1`_. The latter because PHP 4.3.5 had some problems
with shared extensions and destructors for resources and some other
issues. Instead of releasing PHP 4.3.5pl1, we instead
`released PHP 4.3.6`_. Somebody also `suggested`_ to make all
normal functions also raise exceptions instead of throwing errors, the
answer `'NO'`_ was the answer (and not 42), although we had another
thread started by `John`_ about extensions with an OO interface
throwing exceptions instead of errors. Sterling `argued`_ that
"Tidy's current error handling scheme is totally messed up" as too many
things where not warnings but exceptions. This was fixed later by John.
Jason Garber `wrote to the list`_ suggesting a new operator or construct to
do
"$nCustID = (integer) (isset($_POST['nCustID']) ? $_POST['nCustID'] : 0));".
This sparked a long thread discussing a `new construct`_ or
`a new function`_. The conclusion is to go with a new function, but
this has not been added yet.

In May David Sklar `wrote`_ to the list suggesting to add a
form display and processing module to the PHP distribution. Wez 
`pointed out`_ that this is not desired as discussed before.
Lukas was rallying to make `require`_ throw exceptions 
when a file could not be found. It stayed with a short thread, as this is
obvious that we won't want internal functions suddenly to start throw
exceptions. Marcus started a `discussion`_ about some mechanism to allow
"null" variables together with classes as type hints. Current status: still
nothing done with it.
Rasmus sent a `patch`_ to the list to make PHP compile as
a non-pic module for Apache, increasing performance up to 30%. This
item came back a couple of times later, but it is `still not`_ added to CVS.
`Andrei added a patch`_ to the INI system to allow already defined
entries to be reused later on. After some `discussion`_ it was decided
though to postpone this to PHP 5.1. We also spoke briefly about the
`strange hacks`_ for floatingpoint and serialization. This issue is
now finally fixed in PHP 4.3.10/PHP 5.0.3 due to our own implementation of
a string to float algorithm. Wez `cooked up a patch`_ to fix the 
order in which extensions are initialized when starting PHP, to satisfy
dependencies. This feature will be in PHP 5.1.

June was the month in which the internals list was `receiving`_ `'bugfixes'`_,
which weren't `fixes`_ at all, and some `improvements`_ which `weren't`_
`improvements`_ either.  Some of the patches `even broke BC`_. Christian summed
it up `nicely`_ to the guy, but `he didn't seem to get it`_. The discussion
later turned into another discussion on Apache 2, in which Rasmus `explained`_
the problems once more. Andi `suggested to upgrade`_ http://www.php.net to PHP
5 to show that it is ready, but we ended up `not doing it`_.

The memory leaks `were fixed`_ in July, but Andi `decided`_ to turn it off for
5.0.0 anyway. We received a `funny CVS account request`_ just after we
discussed about the `ifsetor()`_ operator again. On July 13th `PHP 5`_ was
finally released. Marcus `tried`_ a patch to speed up null, true and false but
this was reverted. George Wiffen `wrote a very intersting mail`_ discussing all
the different problems with floating point numbers in PHP, but we did not do
any changes related to this. On the 20th we had some moron spamming the bug
system because he did not agree on his bugs being bogussed.  Sara wrote code
for a `goto operator`_, which we later removed as we could not agree on the
implementation of it, this spawned Stefan's `reaction`_ to kill exceptions too.

In August Jason `asked about better date/time support`_ in PHP. This got myself
working on the date parsing stuff in PHP again, but I did not have the time to
finish it yet. Andi also rolled PHP 5.0.1, but still not everybody `was happy`_
with namespaces not being in PHP 5.  `Adam Q`_ started a thread about SQLite's
insecurity because it could be downloaded from the webroot. Both `Zeev`_ and
`Ilia`_ told him that was non-sense. At the end of the month Roshan wrote a
`rant`_ to the mailinglist about extensions being "experimental" for too long.
Rasmus `pointed out`_ once more that we're just a bunch of volunteers, and both
`Sterling`_ and `Robert Amos`_ summerize things nicely.  Sebastian `wrote to
the list`_ about adopting PEP (Python Enhancement Proposals) for PHP to
structurize development a bit. And although `some ideas`_ might be useful it's
unlikely they will be adopted any time soon. We also discussed `multi-byte
support`_ again, and it looks like some people are going to kick start this for
PHP 5.2 finally.

In September Andi committed a new VM for PHP 5.1, including `an explanation.`_
This new VM should perform better in a lot of cases.  After some discussions
Andi `modified it`_ so that the old executor can still be used `for debuggers
and the like`_.  Also Joe's DVAL_TO_LVAL `patch was committed`_, which would
later cause quite some `problems`_ with code using the 32th bit in integer
values.  Subsequently this patch was reverted later. I put some work in
converting Rasmus' `statcallpatch`_ to something usable with a configure
switch. Although this patch really does `quite a lot`_ for FreeBSD systems, the
patch was discarded unfortunately. Andi *did* put some work into a `realpatch
cache`_ which solves a bit of the problems. Joe `submitted a patch`_ to build
PHP as a non-PIC DSO, but again, nothing was done with this patch even though
it's `proven`_ to be 10-30% faster. Hans Zaunere `wrote about problems`_ on
64bit platforms' library locations. Support for a different library directory
than /lib was added in PHP 4.3.10 and PHP 5.0.3 in December. Andrey was
`claiming`_ that "Only bugs are backported to 4.3", which is ofcourse not true
;-).

Sebastian `ran some benchmarks`_ in October with different GCC optimization
flags showing `interesting results`_. Andi added another performance patch to
PHP 5.1, but unfortunately this one breaks listing used variables in Xdebug.
Ron `suggested to extend empty()`_ to use multiple arguments, but this was
`discussed`_ a lot in the past already. Kamesh from the Netware porting team
wanted to `add two new switches`_ to the CLI SAPI of PHP for special Netware
`related`_ problems. In the end we ended up not doing it because `it's not
CLI's task`_.  We also discussed plans for `PHP 5.1`_. One of the things is
unicode support, but we will most likely do that for `PHP 5.2`_.  At the end of
the month Sean `forwarded a note`_ about curl not caring about safemode. `Adam
Greenfeld`_ summarizes all the points why it should not be PHP's job to guard
against. Besides that you can `configure cURL`_ to not allow file:// URLs.

In November Klaus `sent in`_ an "Upload Meter Patch" but it can not work at
all, or atlease not `reliable`_. We also had somebody `wanting fork() for
Windows`_ - but that concept does not exist and `emulating it is quite
impossible too`_. We also went ahead exporting iconv functions, and installing
headers for them. This will be useful for unicode support later on.

In December Alan `suggested the outsourcing`_ the activation of new CVS
accounts, to which `Nuno`_ suggested to clean up non-used accounts. Rasmus was
`wondering what problem he was trying to solve`_.  Sebastian `forwarded`_ a
link to one of the Apache developers' posting about the "anti-Apache 2 FUD".
This spawned a discussion about why people are not switching to Apache 2. The
reasons is simply that PHP developers `don't really need it`_. The same
discussion also touched why people are `not switching to PHP 5`_. Although
Jochem used `the wrong example application`_. PHP 4.3.10 and PHP 5.0.3 were
released as a result of a `list of security platforms`_.  At the same time the
`Santy`_ worm was attacking phpBB. Although the phpBB people `put out`_ a
totally `bogus`_ statement, more bad things about PHP were said. I wrote a
little `FUD buster`_ and PHP.net now also has `a statement`_.

.. _`Andi wanting to release PHP 5 RC1`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/6795
.. _`announcing pecl/date`: http://news.php.net/php.pecl.dev/315
.. _`Andi started another thread`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/6845
.. _`it's basics`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/6997
.. _`voted`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/7170
.. _`guy`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/7340
.. _`Apache 2 and threads`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/7471
.. _`including SOAP`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/7609
.. _`RC1`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/8396
.. _`giving a FPE`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/8060
.. _`discussed problems with signatures for inherited methods`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/8128
.. _`started`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/8377
.. _`little problems`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/8407
.. _`problems`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/13199
.. _`mailed`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/8610
.. _`answered`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/8611
.. _`"Studlycaps and MySQLi"`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/8639
.. _`PHP 5 RC2`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/8848
.. _`PHP 4.3.5pl1`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/8859
.. _`released PHP 4.3.6`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/8872
.. _`suggested`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/8990
.. _`'NO'`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/8997
.. _`John`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/9048
.. _`argued`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/9298
.. _`wrote to the list`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/12367
.. _`new construct`: http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=php-dev&m=108205754402394&w=2
.. _`a new function`: http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=php-dev&m=108214435225556&w=2
.. _`wrote`: http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=pecl-dev&m=108386137923670&w=2
.. _`pointed out`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/12356
.. _`require`: http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=php-dev&m=108401035824996&w=2
.. _`discussion`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/9871
.. _`patch`: http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=php-dev&m=108441860003724&w=2
.. _`still not`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/14013
.. _`Andrei added a patch`: http://news.php.net/php.zend-engine.cvs/2640
.. _`strange hacks`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/9938
.. _`cooked up a patch`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/9979
.. _`receiving`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/10317
.. _`'bugfixes'`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/10344
.. _`fixes`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/10366
.. _`improvements`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/10413
.. _`weren't`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/10419
.. _`even broke BC`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/10533
.. _`nicely`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/10434
.. _`he didn't seem to get it`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/10500
.. _`explained`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/10491
.. _`suggested to upgrade`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/10795
.. _`not doing it`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/10802
.. _`were fixed`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/10881
.. _`decided`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/10910
.. _`funny CVS account request`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/11082
.. _`ifsetor()`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/10962
.. _`PHP 5`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/11209
.. _`tried`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/11274
.. _`wrote a very intersting mail`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/11502
.. _`goto operator`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/11599
.. _`reaction`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/11658
.. _`asked about better date/time support`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/11839
.. _`was happy`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/12174
.. _`Adam Q`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/12293
.. _`Zeev`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/12296
.. _`Ilia`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/12304
.. _`rant`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/12349
.. _`Sterling`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/12358
.. _`Robert Amos`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/12360
.. _`some ideas`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/12374
.. _`multi-byte support`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/12437
.. _`an explanation.`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/12681
.. _`modified it`: http://news.php.net/php.zend-engine.cvs/3019
.. _`for debuggers and the like`: http://news.php.net/php.zend-engine.cvs/3042
.. _`patch was committed`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/12731
.. _`statcallpatch`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/12793
.. _`quite a lot`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/12838
.. _`realpatch cache`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/12919
.. _`submitted a patch`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/12854
.. _`proven`: http://derickrethans.nl/month-2004-12.php?item=200412101411#200412101411
.. _`wrote about problems`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/12974
.. _`claiming`: http://news.php.net/php.pecl.dev/1392
.. _`ran some benchmarks`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/13146
.. _`interesting results`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/13151
.. _`suggested to extend empty()`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/13412
.. _`discussed`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/13423
.. _`add two new switches`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/13521
.. _`related`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/13523
.. _`it's not CLI's task`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/13554
.. _`PHP 5.1`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/13426
.. _`PHP 5.2`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/13441
.. _`forwarded a note`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/13584
.. _`Adam Greenfeld`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/13648
.. _`configure cURL`: http://bugs.php.net/bug.php?id=30609
.. _`sent in`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/13724
.. _`reliable`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/13792
.. _`wanting fork() for Windows`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/13839
.. _`emulating it is quite impossible too`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/13852
.. _`suggested the outsourcing`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/14081
.. _`Nuno`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/14085
.. _`wondering what problem he was trying to solve`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/14095
.. _`forwarded`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/14121
.. _`don't really need it`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/14139
.. _`not switching to PHP 5`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/14176
.. _`the wrong example application`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/14184
.. _`list of security platforms`: http://www.php.net/release_4_3_10.php
.. _`Santy`: http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/technology/4117711.stm
.. _`put out`: http://www.phpbb.com/phpBB/viewtopic.php?f=14&t=248046
.. _`bogus`: http://ilia.ws/archives/31-phpBB-unserialize-bug.html
.. _`FUD buster`: http://derickrethans.nl/month-2004-12.php?item=200412241207#200412241207
.. _`a statement`: http://php.net/

