Is the media behind the wall?
=============================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: Dieren, The Netherlands
   :Date: 20040223 2009 CET
   :Tags: 

Today the hearings at the International Justice Court started
regarding the Israeli Wall. There were some things in the local
news reporting that struck me as odd.

There were quite some demonstrations in the Hague; the morning was
for the pro-Israel people, who even brought the bus blown up in a
terrorist attack at the end of January to the square in front of
the Peace Palace and the afternoon was for the pro-Palestinian
people, including Mrs. Greta Duisenberg. One of the reports from `2 Vandaag`_ was asking questions to the leaders of the
manifestation. The leader of the pro-Israel group, while holding a
photo of a murdered Israeli in his hands, was asked "Do you think
that this wall is a good thing for the Palestinian people?" His
answer was: "Of course it is not a good solution, but it's a better
solution than all the others". The leader of the pro-Palestian
group was asked "Does the Palestinian Authority do enough to stop
the terror brought upon the Israeli people?" to which she could
only answer "I'm getting sick of those questions." So does this
mean that she can't even think out-side the box to understand how
everything affects the live of the Isrealis? IMO it only shows that
people still have no clue on what is going on there... they only
see one side of the story and the media is not helping them to get
all the information.


.. _`2 Vandaag`: http://2vandaag.nl/index.php?module=PX_Story&func=view&cid=2&sid=27992

