PHP Look Back 2003
==================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: Dieren, The Netherlands

Happy New Year!

By popular demand here is the PHP Look Back 2003. Just like last year I look
back at the most interesting (and sometimes funny) happenings on the PHP
mailinglist. I decided not to do any of the PEAR lists as I'm just not involved
in that. If you want a look back on PEAR, feel free to bug the `PEAR People`_;
I'm sure they will be happy to write one too ;-). As a small disclaimer: This
might not always be a totally objective look back, as this is not an official
thing. For now, have fun; we start in January.

January: The new year started by a message by `Wez`_ to bring up the issue of
switched by default to Zend Engine 2 for the HEAD branch (still 4.4 at that
time). Not totally unexpected the idea of moving all extensions to PECL also
came up but fortunately the thread was small enough. Only a day later on the
2nd the Netware dudes `had some trouble`_ with the whole PHP build process
again. `Nicos`_ thinks he found a big bug, on which Sterling has to say `'Its
about as much of a bug as passing filetype(null) isn't a bug.'`_. We'll hear
more of this Nicos fellow later this year. The discussion on the `CGI and CLI
proposal`_ continued and the result was that for Unix if both SAPIs are built
only the CGI version would have been installed, and on Windows there would be a
new 'cli/' subdirectory to contain the new php.exe CLI executable. On the 13th
Mike Robinson was asking if `it was possible to use both PHP 4 and  PHP 5 in
the same webserver`_. Although James was `cooking a patch for it`_ it is still
not possible because for some reason Apache starts crashing.  The current
'best' way of doing it is to put the primary version as the webserver module
and the secondary as CGI version. Some confusion existed by misunderstanding
that there would be no `more point releases before PHP 5`_, but of course that
was not the case. The first idea to release 4.3.1 was immediately around too.
On the 15th Rasmus `announced`_ a request data filter, which is now available
in the latest PHP 5 versions. This filter makes it possible to write custom
extensions to enforce policies on the Evil User input.  A week later the first
person `was asking`_ when PHP 5 would be released about. Of course he got the
standard answer back but it also made the php5-dev list to `disband`_, still a
shame if you ask me (and others).

February was pretty boring actually. Except for announcements on `PHP and
Mono`_, a new `Date extension`_ (Pierre where is it? :), and a new `ext_skel`_
script by Hartmurt the only 'slightly' interesting discussions were the `hunt
for`_ `system calls`_ by Rasmus and a `discussion on the`_ `addition of
file_put_contents()`_. The release process for `PHP 4.3.2`_ started too.

In March Sascha was still `advocating`_ the merging of fixes to the PHP_4
branch, but other people (like `me`_) thought correctly that it would have been
useles to do. We had `some`_ `encounters`_ with our friend Jumadi too. In the
second week the first talk on `SQLite`_ bindings being added to the PHP
distribution. Nobody really reacted on this though at that time, some `people`_
even wanted to put it in PECL ;-). Some good work on `64bit`_ `issues`_ was
done too by David Hill. At some point Jani `got pissed`_ at the huge amounts of
crap that were posted to php-dev@ . Some of the `developers`_ agree, but
`others`_ (of course) not. `Although the description`_ on our support page
cleary says that it is *not* for 'developing WITH PHP' not really many people
know this apparently. After a longish discussion we changed the name of the
list to internals@ after finding out that the `MySQL`_ guys did the same. But
it didn't `really`_ `work`_ :) In March the problems with `namespaces`_ began
to be `known`_ too. `Andrei`_ implemented that our code parser also parses the
embedded doc comments, after some problems this is now working fine in PHP 5.
Sterling `added`_ a standard Exception class, Wez raised an `issue with
filedescriptors`_ on Slowaris that should be fixed before 4.3.2 is released and
Andrei `posted`_ an RFC on an reflection API for PHP 5.

April started with a `discussion`_ on how to release binary PECL modules
through PEAR without having problems with `untrusted modules`_ and a nice one
on `Coding Standards`_; something that's highly valuable but almost never
enforced which is a bad thing.  An extra API function safe_emalloc was `added`_
to guard against integer overflows in allocating memory inside extensions. We
also discovered that `flex 2.5.31`_ doesn't really work with PHP at all.

In May Sascha posted a `patch`_ to eliminate the use of stdio and replaces it
with a streams interface and put it `life`_ on `php.net`_ to test it. May also
featured a flamewar on bundling XML which Sterling did on the `7th`_. Some
`sane`_ `people`_ `agreed`_ `with`_ `Edin`_ that it should not be bundled, and
definitely not as source. There were of course also a `couple`_ of stubborn
people who want it bundled. Fortunately this the crap was removed again and the
few PHP 5 betas we have work pretty fine without it and it didn't raise that
much 'problems' by users. This shows that we can safely omit it from the
distribution. People still `kept`_ asking about a release date for PHP 5 but
the answer was again `'When it is ready'`_. `Helly`_ started a long thread on
'exceptions' instead of errors by determining if we were executing in a class
scope or not.  We stayed with the current way of doing things: errors. We were
still doubting if `the fd patch`_ should go into 4.3.2. In the end it was
`reverted`_ and queued for 4.3.3. Not everybody was pleased with this and some
people even released their own unofficial 'gold' version.

'Broken' support for namespaces was finally `removed`_ in June; after `some
fuss`_ it looks like it was the best option though. A new `discussion`_ on
moving all extensions to PECL was started, but 1. PECL doesn't `really work`_
yet and 2. we still think PECL as `Siberia`_. `PHP 4.3.2RC1 was released`_ on
the 18th and at that same day Sterling `posted`_ a PHP 5 Beta TODO list. Rasmus
`raised the issue with the LGPL mbstring mess`_ which should be fixed before we
release (a beta of) PHP 5. `Moriyoshi`_ promised to fix this issue with some
new code, which later also seemed to be LGPL :).  `Jumadi`_ was back too. James
started `messing`_ with the CVS repository which cause quite some `problems`_
for me and `other developers`_, while non-developers thought `it was a good
idea`_. Although James `claims`_ he warned us before he never `discussed`_
anything what and when he was about to mess up the CVS again. Sascha came up
with a `plan`_ on how to continue from that point. There were some hurdles that
needed to be fixed, but I think almost nobody agreed with Sterling's `'I'm a
very strong +1, so long as you are the one who implements this'`_.  Rasmus also
drew a nice `diagram`_ too ;-). We also `removed`_ our bundled libmysql in PHP
5, not only because of them changing libmysql to the viral GPL, but also
because it's 'our policy' not to have any more bundled libs in our CVS. Instead
we started `bundling SQLite`_ and didn't do what the `PostGreSQL dudes`_ really
wanted: bundling the PostGreSQL library. At the end of the month `PHP5 Beta 1`_
was released.

July started with a nice little discussion on one of John's 'stupid' ideas of
using `SQLite for sessions`_. Another `question on when PHP 5 would be
released`_, this time by one of the Novell porting guys who `messed`_ with our
CVS before already.

`Georg`_ was tired of answering all the silly MySQL license questions,
`George`_ nicely summerized what Sterling already replied to Georg: `'Just
don't reply'`_. Andi wanted to start with `PHP 5 Beta 2`_ and release it on
August 11th, Marcus sent an `updated TODO`_ list to the mailinglist.  I found a
`little bug with the shutdown order`_ for PHP. Something that's still not
addressed.

About a month later in August Lars Torben submitted a `patch`_ to add a new
function called 'variable_exists()' to check if a variable exists or not, there
was a lot of arguing `for`_ and `against`_ this function, the decision was not
to add it. There was another `feature request for user-defined super globals`_
but just as before we did not add it. Later in the month we had a `discussion`_
of adapting Thies' and Sterling's `Faster Harder Stronger`_ `patch`_. We also
had a funny `support`_ question.

September started with a little `post`_ on suckyCaps and PHP not being case
sensitive for function names. Wez was `crowned as King of PECL`_ to boost the
momemtum for our new `extension repository`_ which still had `some problems`_
at that time. One of the things that we don't allow in PECL are extensions that
wrap around GPL libraries or extensions that are GPL itself because of the
`viral`_ nature of the GPL. At the end of the month we had a clown who wants to
`serialize`_ DOM objects. We made it clear that he was `wrong`_.

A discussion that `started`_ in September on the 'BC break' with array_merge()
not allowing 'FALSE' being passed any more as argument continued in October.
`Jay`_ pretty much describes why the arguments against the change are bogus.
David `proposes`_ to add regex operators, a bit similar to Hartmut's proposal
to add a callback to switch(); Rasmus' `reply`_ exactly described what most
other people thought about it. Andi also released `PHP 5 Beta 2`_ at the end of
the month. Marko posted an `email`_ which describes a difference in Mac OSX'
bind sources and headers which of course causes some troubles. Melvyn
summarizes this mess with `'Apple devs have re-invented the wheel and made it
square'`_.  `Ilia`_ and others successfully argued against the inclusion of an
`mbstring patch`_ to go into 4.3.4. Later it showed that it would have caused a
major bug if it would have been included.

November started with the `release`_ of PHP 4.3.4. After that we started
quarelling over a new `array syntax`_ in the form of square brackets. At the
end the idea was succesfully shot down.  Andi had the idea to release `PHP 5 RC
1`_ but most `other`_ `people`_ `didn't`_ agree with this though. Instead we
opted to release another Beta. We also added a `E_STRICT`_ error type to PHP 5
which is not part of E_ALL and is meant for 'purists (like Jani :)'.

FlameWar month (December) was busy. On the first day we discussed the inclusion
of `ext/tidy`_ into the standard distribution.  After some `problems`_ were
fixed it was added. One day later we `dropped support for Windows 95`_ and we
started another *sigh* discussion on moving the standard methods and objects
over to the `suckyCaps`_ way. I'm afraid that's what we'll be heading at; but
not `without a fight`_. Wez `added`_ a new build system for Windows, the OCI
extension was `put the PECL`_ (but also still available in the normal
distribution). Following this Wez posted a `FUD buster`_ on PECL. Later we had
a huge thread on the fgetcsv() function and `mbstring 'cruft'`_ in there.
`__toString() magic`_ was removed too, but extensions (such as SimpleXML) can
still implement this behavior. Another major disucssion we had was about an
`optional parameter`_ to set_error_handler() which acts like an additional mask
for when the user defined error handler should be called. We also `released`_
as a birthday present for me. `Jumadi`_ was `back`_ too.

With this I conclude the look back on PHP's 2003. Next year will hopefully
bring PHP 5 and lots of 'interesting' dicussions for the developers. Happy
New Year and let's hope that: James doesn't mess up the CVS anymore; Jumadi
and Nicos stay quiet; Andi and Wez don't move to the US; Andrei finally stays at
one place; Edin has great success with his new company; Jani keeps killin'
(bugs); Steph stays put to her education; Zeev doesn't need to travel that 
much; Ilia keeps fixing bugs and Marcus and Sebastian learn that OO isn't
everything ;).

.. _`PEAR People`: mailto:pear@lists.php.net
.. _`Wez`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=93021
.. _`had some trouble`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=93049
.. _`Nicos`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=93120
.. _`'Its about as much of a bug as passing filetype(null) isn't a bug.'`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=93128
.. _`CGI and CLI proposal`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=92682
.. _`it was possible to use both PHP 4 and  PHP 5 in the same webserver`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=93429
.. _`cooking a patch for it`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=93431
.. _`more point releases before PHP 5`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=93505
.. _`announced`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=93510
.. _`was asking`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=93605
.. _`disband`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=93633
.. _`PHP and Mono`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=93903
.. _`Date extension`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=94275
.. _`ext_skel`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=94345
.. _`hunt for`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=94491
.. _`system calls`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=94502
.. _`discussion on the`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=94407
.. _`addition of file_put_contents()`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=94431
.. _`PHP 4.3.2`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=94521
.. _`advocating`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=94741
.. _`me`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=94743
.. _`some`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=94756
.. _`encounters`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=94971
.. _`SQLite`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=94882
.. _`people`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=5344
.. _`64bit`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=94838
.. _`issues`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=94800
.. _`got pissed`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=95057
.. _`developers`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=95061
.. _`others`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=95060
.. _`Although the description`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=95071
.. _`MySQL`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=95076
.. _`really`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=192
.. _`work`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=657
.. _`namespaces`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.dev&amp;article=95158
.. _`known`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=315
.. _`Andrei`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=31
.. _`added`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.cvs&article=24840
.. _`issue with filedescriptors`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=255
.. _`posted`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=2401
.. _`discussion`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=4190
.. _`untrusted modules`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=637
.. _`Coding Standards`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=696
.. _`flex 2.5.31`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=955
.. _`patch`: http://www.edwardbear.org/fasterharderstronger.diff
.. _`life`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=1277
.. _`php.net`: http://www.php.net
.. _`7th`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=1323
.. _`sane`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=1324
.. _`agreed`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=1327
.. _`with`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=1328
.. _`Edin`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=1330
.. _`couple`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=1368
.. _`kept`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=1302
.. _`'When it is ready'`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=1308
.. _`Helly`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=1192
.. _`the fd patch`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=1795
.. _`reverted`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=1840
.. _`removed`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=2479
.. _`some fuss`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=2133
.. _`really work`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=2212
.. _`Siberia`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=2225
.. _`PHP 4.3.2RC1 was released`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=2396
.. _`raised the issue with the LGPL mbstring mess`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=2407
.. _`Moriyoshi`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=2428
.. _`Jumadi`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=6274
.. _`messing`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=2562
.. _`problems`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=5959
.. _`other developers`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=2606
.. _`it was a good idea`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=2605
.. _`claims`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=2608
.. _`discussed`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=2618
.. _`plan`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=2650
.. _`'I'm a very strong +1, so long as you are the one who implements this'`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=2655
.. _`diagram`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=2661
.. _`bundling SQLite`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=2563
.. _`PostGreSQL dudes`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=2747
.. _`PHP5 Beta 1`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=2971
.. _`SQLite for sessions`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=3096
.. _`question on when PHP 5 would be released`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=3359
.. _`messed`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=3378
.. _`Georg`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=3451
.. _`George`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=3471
.. _`'Just don't reply'`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=3452
.. _`PHP 5 Beta 2`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=4863
.. _`updated TODO`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=3507
.. _`little bug with the shutdown order`: http://zend.com/lists/engine2/200307/msg00041.html
.. _`for`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=3946
.. _`against`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=3954
.. _`feature request for user-defined super globals`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=4147
.. _`Faster Harder Stronger`: http://www.edwardbear.org/thieso/archives/000226.html
.. _`support`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.qa&article=15600
.. _`post`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=4375
.. _`crowned as King of PECL`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=4519
.. _`extension repository`: http://pecl.php.net
.. _`some problems`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.pecl.dev&article=50
.. _`viral`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.pecl.dev&article=41
.. _`serialize`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.xml.dev&article=205
.. _`wrong`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.xml.dev&article=216
.. _`started`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=4552
.. _`Jay`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=4553
.. _`proposes`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=4825
.. _`reply`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=4837
.. _`email`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.qa&article=15714
.. _`'Apple devs have re-invented the wheel and made it square'`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=4884
.. _`Ilia`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.cvs&article=24247
.. _`mbstring patch`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.cvs&article=24244
.. _`release`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=5178
.. _`array syntax`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=5186
.. _`PHP 5 RC 1`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=5340
.. _`other`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=5343
.. _`didn't`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=5347
.. _`E_STRICT`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=5526
.. _`ext/tidy`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=5872
.. _`dropped support for Windows 95`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=6002
.. _`suckyCaps`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=6000
.. _`without a fight`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=6053
.. _`put the PECL`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=6306
.. _`FUD buster`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=6304
.. _`mbstring 'cruft'`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=6462
.. _`__toString() magic`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=6441
.. _`optional parameter`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=6594
.. _`released`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=6673
.. _`back`: http://news.php.net/article.php?group=php.internals&amp;article=6277

