1984
====

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: Skien, Norway
   :Date: 20050714 0016 CEST
   :Tags: cms, php, politics

Perhaps a bit of a cliche title, but Mr Orwell did have a point :) The
same thing seem to be happening here now in Europe after the horrible
attacks in London last week, as were happening in the US after the 11-9
attacks: it is used as an excuse to take away civil
liberties.

The European Commission, and also the national parliaments, have been
discussing for some time the idea of forcing ISPs and telecom companies
to store traffic data - records that contain the websites your visited,
the email addresses you send mail to and whom you called at which time
from which cell tower - and this all in the name of fighting
criminality. Although that's a noble cause, they forget a couple of
things (examples from the Netherlands):

The governments are not paying for the huge investments that ISPs need
to make to store this traffic data for three! years. The costs for this
are millions of euros per ISP which they will never see back, and will
likely cause them to charge more to their customers.

All research that was done on this subject in the Netherlands show that
collecting this data does not buy the autorities anything.

In the `news`_ today I read that "UK Home Secretary Charles Clarke" now wants
to accelerate this hole process because of fighting *terrorism*. But
with these regulations, the European People will also get stripped of
important civil liberties, for something that is *proven* to be useles.
Luckily the European Parliament's civil liberties committee doesn't
agree with these new regulations either. One MEP said that
"...introducing measures which sounded tough did not mean they
would be effective. Fears were also raised about intrusion into
privacy."

Besides this, it seems that `some countries`_ are giving up on the Schengen treaty, that allows
freedom of travel inside the treaty's area.


.. _`news`: http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_news/politics/4677241.stm
.. _`some countries`: http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/europe/4680163.stm

