Webtech 2005 in Sofia (1)
=========================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: Sofia, Bulgaria
   :Date: 20050422 2334 EEST
   :Tags: conference, php, travel, work

Sofia is an interesting city. Unlike Budapest in Hungary it does not seem to have fully recovered from the
communist area - the whole city seems to be in scaffolding still. The conference is well
organised and our hosts, Bogomil, Kristina and Boyan are very friendly. After my session on SRM, we
wanted `to see something of the city`_ and they were very pleased to come
with us.

Sofia is pretty nice, but it also has it's
shabby sides. On our way from hotel Medic to the conference area it was pretty hard to miss the shelterless
people looking for food in the trashcans. The conference area itself is huge, there where atleast 400 people
in there for Richard Stallmans (repeated from FOSDEM) talk on Copyright and the "Information Age". For my
talk on `SRM`_ and `eZ publish`_ there where less people - about 250 - but they did ask questions and they seemed guininely interested.

For dinner
we want to "The Parrot" and had food and some wine - a really nice social event with some of the organisers,
the folks from `Maguma`_ (Alexander and Landon) and some other people.
Stallman was already gone - too bad Bogomil still didn't tell us the "Stallman-story". But the
"Alexander-story" was interesting too: he was denied access to the country after he tried to get into the
country with his Italian ID card, because his passport was expired (3 years ago) - at the end he did manage
to get into the country though on a provisional passport.

And the end of the day I also made some shots of `the Moon in conjunction with Jupiter`_ .


.. _`to see something of the city`: /sofia_pictures.php
.. _`SRM`: http://derickrethans.nl/projects.html#srm
.. _`eZ publish`: http://ez.no
.. _`Maguma`: http://maguma.com
.. _`the Moon in conjunction with Jupiter`: /moon_and_jupiter_conjunction.php

