A Decade of PHP
===============

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: Skien, Norway
   :Date: 20050607 1135 CEST
   :Tags: blog, php, work

About seven years ago I was hacking up some small sites in HTML for
small businesses in my neighbourhood. One of them wanted to collect some
address details and we were using some crappy CGI script to talk to
MySQL - something that looked like server side includes. After a couple
of months the customer wanted some more features related to this contact
database - but the simple CGI script couldn't handle this. Then my
co-worker found something called PHP (version 3.0.5 or so).

This language has since then been part of my life, it started growing on
me quite fast as it was easy to learn, and free. I think it even made me
realize that Windows was crap and made me switch to Linux. After some
time I needed to figure out the size of a Shockware Flash movie -
something PHP couldn't just do yet. Instead of whining and bitching I
decided it to `code it myself`_ - my first contribution to the PHP project. But this was
certainly not the last one. Now I spend most of my professional time
working `with`_ , and working on PHP - and most of my spare time
working on various patches for PHP (although I now try to use some of my
spare time for `other things`_ too ;-) ).

PHP changed my life quite a lot, and without `Rasmus`_ there would have been no PHP. I'd like to thank him for coming up with
something that allow "you to implement a guestbook or any other
form" — although you can do a little bit more with PHP now ;-).
Let's get ready for the next 10 years!


.. _`code it myself`: http://viewcvs.php.net/viewcvs.cgi/php-src/ext/standard/image.c.diff?r1=1.18&r2=1.19
.. _`with`: http://ez.no
.. _`other things`: https://www.flickr.com/photos/derickrethans/
.. _`Rasmus`: http://groups.google.ch/group/comp.infosystems.www.authoring.cgi/msg/cc7d43454d64d133?oe=UTF-8&output=gplain

