Fanmail
=======

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: Skien, Norway
   :Date: 20051013 1155 CEST
   :Tags: cms, php, politics, work

I got a very nice email in my inbox from a PHP user concerning my
"extreme hostility to the PHP community in general". This is
ofcourse regarding my "fix" to combat PHP's stability (in
other words, the "memory corruption" bug). The guy in question
was acusing me that I "have acted just like Microsoft and
eliminated a HUGE reason for PHP's success". I am not so sure where
he pulls this comparison from actually. We're pretty good
at *fixing* memory corruptions, addressing security problems and
fixing bugs in my opinion.

Then my fan suggested that it is "time you [red. I] moved on, learn
how to listen to a user base, or quit PHP before you kill it". I
find those kinds of claims quite prepostruous as I probably spend more
time on improving PHP then I spend on sleeping. Sure, some of the things
that we do can be considered as "unpopular" as sometimes we
need to fix a bug that breaks older scripts that relied on the buggy
behavior. And yes, those scripts and applications needs to be fixed than
which indeed takes time. `We`_ took that
time to clean up our application and do the right thing, and had to
delay our `3.7`_ release for
a substantial amount of time, but in the end we ended up with a PHP
version that doesn't segfault *and* a better application. This is
called progress. If those "millions of users" had written
proper tested code, they would not have had "broken websites"
in the first place. Now they have the choice, just like `we`_ had, to either fix their scripts or use an
older version of PHP.

For the record in case the person who mailed me this reads this post: I
did not have anything to do with PHP 5.0.5. And under no circumstances
will I stop doing any "favors" or "go away" because
I fixed a couple of bugs. You should respect the work that volunteers
put into PHP, and if are not happy with what we do with our spare time,
donate some of your own.


.. _`We`: http://ez.no
.. _`3.7`: http://ez.no/company/news/ez_publish_3_7_0
.. _`we`: http://ez.no

