PHP Look Back 2005
==================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: Skien, Norway
   :Date: 20060101 1422 CET
   :Tags: cms, php

*Update* : some of the links were pointing to a wrong URL.

Welcome to the fourth installment of the PHP Look Back. Just as in
previous years, we'll look back on PHP development discussions,
bloopers and accomplishments of the last year. This is not supposed to
be a fully objective review of last year--note that the opinions in
this article are that of the author, and not of the PHP development
team.

*January* was a quiet month, with not much going on. After about `8 months`_ , we
finally `added`_ a
PIC/non-PIC detection mechanism to the configure script, that will
select non-PIC object generation for supported platforms (Linux and
FreeBSD). Non-PIC code is about 30% faster, as measured in earlier
benchmarks. A week later, `Leonardo`_ was
wondering whether we planned on adding type hints for scalar types to
PHP. As PHP is a weakly-typed language, this is not something we wanted
to add, although we did add support for an "array" type hint,
later in the year. With PHP 5.1's new GOTO execution method (added last
August), variable name lookups are cached internally. This caused some
problems for `Xdebug`_ , as it needs
some information to find out which variables are used in a specific
scope. Andi `committed`_ a
patch that made this possible, again. Michael started working on his
HTTP extension (which generates way too many commit mails ;-) and
encountered a problem with a `naming clash`_ between
PEAR's HTTP class and his PECL extension. Greg `responded`_ and said
that this problem will be solved when PEAR 1.4 comes out, with its
channel support.

Andi started discussions in *February* by pointing out a date for
the first beta of PHP 5.1: March 1st. He declared that `"both PDO and Date should be included in the default distro"`_ and others
suggested that `XML Reader`_ should be included by default, as well. In reply to Andi,
Rasmus `mentioned`_ that he
would like to see the filter extension included as well. The discussion
about this extension quickly transitioned to data mangling of input
request variables that would not be influencable by the script authors,
but only by the system administrator. In the end, this discussion made
place for the topic of `Operator overloading`_ , where certain people kept reiterating that operator
overloading is a `good thing`_ . Andrei
tried to stop this discussion by being `funny`_ , but that
didn't work `very well`_ . Around the same time, Wez `announced`_ the
first beta of PDO--PHP Data Objects. Wez wanted people to `test`_ PDO, and of
course, over the next couple of months, there were various PDO-related `concerns`_ and
issues raised. Another discussion in January was about `auto boxing`_ in
PHP. Auto boxing is the encapsulation of all primitive types as
objects. Naturally, people asked `WHY`_ we would want
to have this, and no sound reason was given. In the end, this
discussion suggested that `phpDocumentor`_ should handle type
determining, instead. Having a `doc block`_ parsing
extension to the reflection API would be nice, although a bit hard. We
also had an `often-recurring discussion`_ on why `GPL`_ is a bad idea for `PECL`_ extensions. John added the `first version`_ of XMLRPCi to CVS; why he chose this silly name is still unknown. Jani
wrote about a problem with `overwriting globals`_ , an issue that--later in the year--warranted a new PHP
release, and Greg `introduced`_ PEAR 1.4,
with channel support. Halfway through the month, `Marcus`_ mentioned a
few things that should go into PHP 5.1; most notably the __toString()
fix, which unfortunately, did not actually make it into the release.
Type hinting with = NULL did `make it in`_ though. Martin Sarsale `reported`_ an issue
with references and segfaults, something which had been annoying `us`_ for quite some time, too. This issue got
fixed in PHP 4.4, albeit not without a little bickering. (More about
that later.)

In *March* , Ilia `proposed`_ a patch
that adds a special token that tells PHP's parser to abort parsing when
the token is encountered. This allows us to attach binary data to the
end of a PHP script. This is highly useful for one-script installers,
such as the one that `FUDForum`_ uses. On the 14th of the month, Zeev released the first `RCs`_ of both 5.0.4
and 4.3.11. We also encountered further `reference issues`_ .
The same guy that mailed tons of "fixes" to the internals
list `last June`_ , was back with `more`_ patches.
Andrei, once again, `pointed out`_ that
it is a good idea to check with an extension's maintainer before
applying patches, and Greg `published`_ the
package2.xml documentation. Lukas, once more, pointed out the weird
naming scheme that new `extensions`_ seem to
be getting, and luckily Debian's PHP packages `got rid`_ of some of
the insanity that was present in `previous`_ releases
by not always building in ZTS mode. Unfortunately, their packages still
force PIC mode for the libraries. A user brought up the idea of an `upload meter patch`_ again, and although we all seemed to `remember`_ that the
original patch was `rejected`_ , no one
could find the original `thread`_ where this
was discussed. Last year's Look Back discussed this too, and there, the
reason was `mentioned`_ . In the
last week of the month, we had some `fuss`_ about `"FreeBSD doing stupid things"`_ regarding their naming of `auto tools executables`_ .

*April* started with `a suggestion`_ by
Zeev to change the way that __autoload() works, by allowing multiple
instances of this magic function. In the end we, didn't end up
implementing this, and as Lukas `describes`_ ,
"Frameworks should provide __autoload() helper methods, but should
never implement the function itself. Its up to the end user to do
this." (This is exactly how we implemented it for the `eZ components`_ ). Andi
wanted to release `PHP 5.1 Beta 1`_ really soon, but as Jani `mentioned`_ , there
where quite a few things that were still not fully ready, and thus the
suggestion to call it `"Alpha"`_ was made, instead. During the thread some `pet-features`_ where `brought up`_ .
Kamesh from the Netware porting team, found `another reference issue`_ . Marcus added `File`_ class to his SPL
extension, causing a small stir--the new class clashed with
applications that already define a File class. Although this is a valid
point, projects defining a "File" class should know better and
always prefix their class names. This same issue will pop up later in
the year. A last, somewhat larger, discussion erupted when a `question`_ about
whether APC could be used as a content cache was posted to the list.
Rasmus `found it an interesting idea`_ , although this functionality can also be
accomplished in user space. In the last point of the thread, Rasmus `mentioned`_ that
APC will soon support PHP 5.

*May* had a slow start, and things only got interesting at the end
of the month. The first thing that came up was Ilia's removal of
dangling commas from enums, something that `"was in c language from the first day"`_ . Apparently, GCC 4 is `"becoming worse and worse"`_ , but luckily we can still just `ignore the warnings`_ .
After a small private discussion with Dmitry about Marcus' and my reference fix patch, he came to the conclusion that this patch breaks binary
compatibility and that this problem doesn't warrant a PHP 4.4 release.
As this reference problem has been affecting many users, and definitely `us`_ over the past months, I `wrote an email`_ to
the list stating that it is "totally irresponsible" not to
release a fix for such a grave bug. `Zeev`_ also said
that "we should probably not fix this at all in the 4.x tree"
because of the hassles that accompany "breaking module binary
compatibility". He also seemed to think that the bug can easily be
worked around. Other users were a bit `happier`_ that we
finally nailed this bug, and Jani replied to Zeev that the `magnitude of this bug is pretty damn high`_ . Rasmus added that `he "will be deploying the patch and happily breaking binary compatibility"`_ as soon as the patch is ready. Breaking
binary compatibility is only a "burden on the maintainers of these
packages" (of the various distributions). Wez thought that `"the only logical move forward is a 4.4 branch and release"`_ . In the end the
Zeev almighty was `"tired of going through the reasons again and again"`_ and noted that
"everyone appears to prefer the upsides to the downsides".
This resulted in the `creation of the PHP_4_4 branch`_ in the first week of *June* .

Wez added a new patch to our CVS server that allows us to `block access`_ to
specific branches--with this, we closed the PHP_4_3 branch for good. A
week later, I `announced 4.4.0RC1`_ which features the reference bug fix. Andi `wrote another PHP 5.1 mail`_ , which spawned a nice long discussion on `adding goto`_ to PHP
and comparing goto to exceptions. Magnus smartly `added`_ that
"people are talking about hypothetical messy code because of
goto" and that they forget that you don't have to use a language
construct if it is available. The same thread also went into a branch
that `discussed the ifsetor()`_ language construct. After Andi returned, he decided not
to do `anything with goto or ifsetor`_ , and that it was now the time to branch, so that
we can merge the Unicode support that was developed in parallel by
mostly Andrei and Dmitry, although `Rasmus is "pretty sure the current discussions will pale in comparison to the chaos that will be created when the Unicode stuff goes into HEAD!"`_ Johannes wondered when the new `date stuff`_ was
going in; it was added a week later, just before PHP 5.1 beta 2. Lukas `suggested that we add`_ the public keyword to PHP 4.4 for forward compatibility.
Rasmus again `wondered about "the reasoning ... for not having var be a synonym for public in PHP5"`_ . Andi `mentioned`_ that
this "was meant to help people find vars so that they can be
explicit about the access modifiers" when moving to PHP 5. A few
days later, Andi `read a blog posting`_ which described how PHP 4.4 is breaking backwards
compatibility by issuing an E_STRICT in cases where you abuse
return-by-reference. This, however, was `not actually the case`_ . Yasuo started a `long thread`_ on
allow_url_fopen() and claimed it was `dangerous`_ . The
main result of this thread seemed to be that we wanted to split the
setting into two different ones: one for allowing remote opening of
URLs and one on including remote URLs. However, this is something we
could not yet change. The last thread of the month was by Andi, `writing about the PHP 5.1 release process`_ .

In *July* , Jessie `suggested`_ a String
extension that declares only one class: String. This class is meant to
prevent copying of the string's data for most operations (which is
currently done with PHP's string functions). Most of the other
developers where against it for different reasons: `"String is such a generic name for a non-core class"`_ and `"the savings gained by this will be more than offset by OO overhead"`_ , so we will
not let `"this get anywhere near the core"`_ . In the same week, I `made more changes to the date extension`_ that allow users to more easily select the timezone
that they want, instead of having to rely on the TZ environment
variable. This is also needed because the `TZ environment variable`_ can most likely not be used in a thread safe way, and it
is `certainly not portable`_ . Also in the same week, I proposed an API for `new Date and Timezone functionality`_ . After some `pressure`_ , I `added`_ an OO API,
too. Near the end of the month, I `committed the implementation of the new date functionality`_ . It was, however, #ifdef-ed out to
facilitate discussions at a later date. Jessie came up with `Yet Another Namespace Proposal`_ , and tried to come up with a solution for all the
previous problems we had with the implementation. He also made several `patches`_ that
added namespaces to PHP. We had some more `fuss`_ about PHP 4.4
breaking BC, where some people `didn't see`_ why we *had* to do this fix. Unfortunately, there were some `quirks`_ that we
still had to sort out. In this same month, Rasmus released `APC 3.0.0`_ which came
with PHP 5.1 support and numerous fixes.

*August* was the month of PHP 5.1 RC 1. It started with a
discussion on `instanceof`_ being
"broken," as it raises a fatal error in the case where the
class that is being checked for doesn't exist. Andi declared `"if you're referencing classes/exceptions in your code that don't exist, then something is very bogus with your code"`_ and `"the only problem is if the class does not exist in your code base, in which case, your application should blow up!"`_ I raised a question about
whether the new PHP with Unicode `should be called PHP 5.5 or PHP 6.0`_ . As most of us, Andi wants to go `"with PHP 6 and aim to release it before Perl 6"`_ . After PHP_5_1 was branched,
Andrei merged the Unicode branch and `gave us some instructions`_ on how to get going with it. He also `introduced the general ideas behind the implementation`_ . RC1 was finally rolled, about
half way through the month, followed by `PHP 5.0.5 RC2`_ a
week later. During the development of the `eZ components`_ we
discovered various things in PHP OO's model that we wanted to see
changed. One of those issues was described in the `Property Overloading RFC`_ . Unfortunately, not everybody could be `convinced`_ , and no
changes where made. I will try again though :). The other issue that we
raised was that failed typehints `throw a fatal error`_ , while that is not strictly necessary. Instead of throwing `exceptions`_ in
this case, the discussion turned towards adding a new `error mode`_ ( `E_RECOVERABLE`_ )
that will be used for non-engine-corrupting fatal errors at the language
level--this is exactly the case with failed typehints. The longest
thread of the month however, was started by Rasmus when he posted his `PHP 6`_ wish
list which featured controversial changes such as "removing
magic_quotes" and "making identifiers case-sensitive",
to which most developers quickly `agreed`_ . Following
his initial wish list, the crowd went wild and started suggesting all
kinds of weird changes, such as `"Radically change all of the operator syntaxes"`_ , `adding "<?php6"`_ as a BC breaking mode, and `"Named parameters"`_ . Marcus made a `list of his own`_ which would later become the first draft of the meeting agenda for a
PHP Developers Meeting.

In *September* , Antony `committed`_ an upgraded
OCI8 extension which fixes `a lot of bugs`_ . We
also decided to play a bit nicer with version_compare(), regarding `naming`_ release
candidates. Zeev `wanted to roll`_ PHP
5.0.5 but there was an `issue`_ with the
shutdown order. The reference issues ( `1`_ , `2`_ ) returned too.
The first one turned out to be an incorrect merge to the PHP 5.0
branch, where suddenly some of the notices turned into `errors`_ . The second
one is simply a small change in behaviour which previously created
memory corruption. Rasmus explained the issue a `bit more`_ , once
again. Ilia tried to implement a `clever fix`_ which turned
out to be a problem later on. Pierre started a discussion on supporting
Unicode in identifiers, something he didn't want to see. PHP already
supports `using UTF-8 encoded characters`_ in identifiers, so removing this feature
will break BC unnecessarily. Besides breaking BC, many people simply
want to use their own language for writing code, as `Tex`_ writes. Zeev
had another attempt at `PHP 5.1.0 RC2`_ with
the latest PEAR being the only thing missing. Marcus brought up the
issue of `__toString()`_ again, and finally managed to get it into CVS, but unfortunately not in
time for PHP 5.1. `Stanislav`_ noticed
some problems with detecting time zones, as the new date/time code did
not try to attempt detection in favour of the `new date.timezone setting`_ . After some discussion, we came up with a `solution`_ , which
was then implemented. It should guess the timezone correctly in most
cases, even on Windows. I also added support for an external `timezone database`_ .

In *October* , I noticed some weird `notices`_ with
"make install-pear", without a clue as to why they were
showing up. This discussion turned into a `why does PEAR not support PHP 5.1`_ thread. In the end, Greg managed to nail down the
weird notices though. I also noticed a commit by `Dmitry`_ that
ignores "&" when $this is passed. I pointed out that this
should not be supported (in PHP 5), as it doesn't make really sense that
people won't see a warning/notice/error when they're doing something
silly. Dmitry `explained`_ that
disallowing it would break code, but he also writes that by "using
'=& $this' a user can break the $this value"--which is
something we definitely should prevent. He `suggested`_ we make
this an E_STRICT warning, and Andi `suggested`_ we
escalate this to an E_ERROR in PHP 6, but neither of those things
happened. A week later `Piotr`_ was asking
for a tarball of our CVS to make it "possible to convert it to
Subversion repository ... so browsing the repositories would be much
easier". We were `wondering`_ why he
needed that, as we offer our own `browser`_ already. `Matthias`_ said that
we "do not want to set off yet another discussion about the changes
4.4 brought", but that is exactly what he did. Again, there is
something wrong with his code, and thus the warning is legal. After
resolving the timezone issues last month, we were `surprised`_ by a
message from Zeev. He `simply missed`_ the
conclusion in the "lengthly thread". After the negative
comments on the PHP 4.4.0 release, Lukas, Ilia and I set up a `routine`_ for
involving some of the more known projects to the `PHP 4`_ and `PHP 5`_ release
processes. As part of this effort, we send `out`_ a mail to all
participating projects whenever we have a release candidate to test. I `raised`_ some
concern regarding our current Unicode implementation because of
maintenance issues. In part of my mail, I also indicated that I wanted `"to clean up PHP 6 for real"`_ , after private discussions with Marcus and
Ilia. Behind the scenes, we prepared some material to organise a PHP
Developers Meeting to discuss the Unicode implementation and the
extended "PHP 6 Wishlist". I also `committed`_ a
patch that allows `typehints for classes to work with = NULL`_ . Another guy raised the issue of `"that new isset() like language construct"`_ , but this ended up going nowhere as
people were suggesting very `Perl-like`_ operators. Jani replied to this thread with `"How about a good ol' beating with a large trout?"`_ On the last day of the
month, we released `PHP 4.4.1`_ which
addresses some of the reference issues we've seen in PHP 4.4.0.

In *November* , we prepared to finally release PHP 5.1, and one of
the efforts was to make an `upgrade guide`_ for
people switching to PHP 5.1. Sean `noticed`_ a problem
with the parameter parsing API's automatic type conversion. Like `Andrei`_ , many
people think that "passing '123abc' and having it interpreted as
123" is still wrong. Dmitry `implemented`_ support for "= null" as default to array type hinting,
something that `I did not do`_ on purpose because "= array()" is the logically correct way
of doing this. Andi `agreed`_ with
me on this. Ilia implemented, in `PHP 5.1RC5`_ , one of
the items that was on the outcome list of the PHP Developers Meeting:
adding a notice that warns people that `curly braces`_ for
addressing a character in a string is now deprecated in favour of the
[] operator--contrary to the current explanation in our manual. {} and
[] are `exactly the same thing`_ and "having two constructs for the same behaviour
is silly and leads to confusing, hard to read code". The outcome of
this discussion was the removal of the notice in PHP 5.1 and the likely
conclusion is that it is not going to get removed. Another change that
was made PHP 5.1RC6 was the creation of the "Date" class,
which caused quite a stir after the release of `PHP 5.1`_ . The
reason to introduce it in 5.1 was simply to make sure that no
applications were going to break if we introduced the Date class later
in the 5.1.x series. Unfortunately a lot of projects, including PEAR,
never heard of "prefixing" class names, causing class name
clashes. Marcus describes the problem as `"PEAR ignores coding standards"`_ , but others suggested that we `rename the internal class`_ to something silly like php_date. `Andrei`_ asked
"what does renaming really buy us? The only purpose of introducing
this class in RC6, as far as I can tell, was to reserve the 'Date' name
for future use." Now that we know about this issue, it's time for
PEAR to start prefixing its classes, so that we finally can do the
right thing and add our Date (and Timezone) classes, code that has been
around for months now, and I'm quite tired of waiting for it to be in a
release where I can use it. We ended up reverting the change that
claimed the Date and Timezone classes, and released 5.1.1 with this
change. After the PDM I `posted`_ the `meeting notes`_ to
the list. Most of the outcome was well appreciated, except the curly
braces idea which had already been discussed. With these notes, we hope
to make PHP 6 a success. The notes also spawned `numerous`_  `polls`_ on the
symbol to use for separating namespaces from class names/function
names. We also discussed our version of a goto: `labelled`_  `breaks`_ . The `filter extension`_ , which I've been
developing for quite some time, did not make it into PHP 5.1, although `it is a good idea`_ to add it, now, with an "experimental" status, so
that this wanted extension gets more testing. Perhaps for PHP 5.1.2...

*December* was a quiet month with not too many things going on.
Ilia `proposed`_ a plan for PHP 5.1.2 and released `PHP 5.1.2RC1`_ , Zeev `committed`_ Dmitry's
re-implementation of the FastCGI API and some `user`_ was whining
about our "official" IRC channel (which doesn't exist).

That was it for 2005! I hope you enjoyed reading this, and have a happy
new year. Extra thanks go to Ilia, for being release master, Dmitry for
maintaining the engine, Jani for hunting down bug reports, Andrei for
his work on Unicode, Mike for his enormous stream of useless commit
messages ;-), and to all others who made PHP happen this year.


.. _`8 months`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/14013
.. _`added`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/17177
.. _`Leonardo`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/14329
.. _`Xdebug`: http://xdebug.org
.. _`committed`: http://news.php.net/php.cvs/36211
.. _`naming clash`: http://news.php.net/php.pecl.dev/1847
.. _`responded`: http://news.php.net/php.pecl.dev/1852
.. _`"both PDO and Date should be included in the default distro"`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/14469
.. _`XML Reader`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/14692
.. _`mentioned`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/16703
.. _`Operator overloading`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/14558
.. _`good thing`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/14701
.. _`funny`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/14713
.. _`very well`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/14717
.. _`announced`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/14736
.. _`test`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/14845
.. _`concerns`: http://news.php.net/php.pecl.dev/2083
.. _`auto boxing`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/14741
.. _`WHY`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/14803
.. _`phpDocumentor`: http://phpdoc.org
.. _`doc block`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/14904
.. _`often-recurring discussion`: http://news.php.net/php.pecl.dev/1884
.. _`GPL`: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.txt
.. _`PECL`: http://pecl.php.net
.. _`first version`: http://news.php.net/php.pecl.cvs/2559
.. _`overwriting globals`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/14971
.. _`introduced`: http://news.php.net/php.pecl.dev/2041
.. _`Marcus`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/15052
.. _`make it in`: http://derickrethans.nl/typehints_and_null.php
.. _`reported`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/15137
.. _`us`: http://ez.no
.. _`proposed`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/20929
.. _`FUDForum`: http://fud.prohost.org
.. _`RCs`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/15424
.. _`reference issues`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/15473
.. _`last June`: http://derickrethans.nl/php_look_back_2004.php
.. _`more`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/15490
.. _`pointed out`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/15452
.. _`published`: http://news.php.net/php.pecl.dev/2189
.. _`extensions`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/15524
.. _`got rid`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/15593
.. _`previous`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/14712
.. _`upload meter patch`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/15558
.. _`remember`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/15559
.. _`rejected`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/15561
.. _`thread`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/15567
.. _`fuss`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/17242
.. _`"FreeBSD doing stupid things"`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/15657
.. _`auto tools executables`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/15655
.. _`a suggestion`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/15739
.. _`describes`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/15788
.. _`eZ components`: http://ez.no/products/ez_components
.. _`PHP 5.1 Beta 1`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/15735
.. _`"Alpha"`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/15767
.. _`pet-features`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/15767
.. _`brought up`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/15813
.. _`another reference issue`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/15953
.. _`File`: http://news.php.net/php.cvs/31242
.. _`question`: http://news.php.net/php.pecl.dev/2313
.. _`found it an interesting idea`: http://news.php.net/php.pecl.dev/2316
.. _`"was in c language from the first day"`: http://news.php.net/php.cvs/31895
.. _`"becoming worse and worse"`: http://news.php.net/php.cvs/31898
.. _`ignore the warnings`: http://news.php.net/php.cvs/31924
.. _`wrote an email`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/16312
.. _`Zeev`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/16314
.. _`happier`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/16329
.. _`magnitude of this bug is pretty damn high`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/16325
.. _`he "will be deploying the patch and happily breaking binary compatibility"`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/16328
.. _`"the only logical move forward is a 4.4 branch and release"`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/16323
.. _`"tired of going through the reasons again and again"`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/16335
.. _`creation of the PHP_4_4 branch`: http://news.php.net/php.zend-engine.cvs/3716
.. _`block access`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/16461
.. _`announced 4.4.0RC1`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/16637
.. _`wrote another PHP 5.1 mail`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/16375
.. _`adding goto`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/16398
.. _`discussed the ifsetor()`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/16749
.. _`anything with goto or ifsetor`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/16583
.. _`Rasmus is "pretty sure the current discussions will pale in comparison to the chaos that will be created when the Unicode stuff goes into HEAD!"`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/16588
.. _`date stuff`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/16392
.. _`suggested that we add`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/16685
.. _`wondered about "the reasoning ... for not having var be a synonym for public in PHP5"`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/16698
.. _`read a blog posting`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/16793
.. _`not actually the case`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/16802
.. _`long thread`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/16903
.. _`dangerous`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/16923
.. _`writing about the PHP 5.1 release process`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/17026
.. _`suggested`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/19381
.. _`"String is such a generic name for a non-core class"`: http://news.php.net/php.pecl.dev/2513
.. _`"the savings gained by this will be more than offset by OO overhead"`: http://news.php.net/php.pecl.dev/2522
.. _`"this get anywhere near the core"`: http://news.php.net/php.pecl.dev/2517
.. _`made more changes to the date extension`: http://news.php.net/php.cvs/32642
.. _`TZ environment variable`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/17116
.. _`certainly not portable`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/17109
.. _`new Date and Timezone functionality`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/17169
.. _`pressure`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/17177
.. _`committed the implementation of the new date functionality`: http://news.php.net/php.cvs/33011
.. _`Yet Another Namespace Proposal`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/17154
.. _`patches`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/17332
.. _`didn't see`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/17244
.. _`quirks`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/17287
.. _`APC 3.0.0`: http://news.php.net/php.pecl.dev/2543
.. _`instanceof`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/17579
.. _`"if you're referencing classes/exceptions in your code that don't exist, then something is very bogus with your code"`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/17638
.. _`"the only problem is if the class does not exist in your code base, in which case, your application should blow up!"`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/17653
.. _`should be called PHP 5.5 or PHP 6.0`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/17668
.. _`"with PHP 6 and aim to release it before Perl 6"`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/17719
.. _`gave us some instructions`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/17848
.. _`introduced the general ideas behind the implementation`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/17771
.. _`PHP 5.0.5 RC2`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/18340
.. _`Property Overloading RFC`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/17491
.. _`convinced`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/17610
.. _`throw a fatal error`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/17581
.. _`exceptions`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/17588
.. _`error mode`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/17820
.. _`E_RECOVERABLE`: http://derickrethans.nl/erecoverableerror.php
.. _`PHP 6`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/17883
.. _`agreed`: http://news.php.net/php.zend-engine.cvs/4359
.. _`"Radically change all of the operator syntaxes"`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/17890
.. _`adding "<?php6"`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/18055
.. _`"Named parameters"`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/17952
.. _`list of his own`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/17930
.. _`a lot of bugs`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/18696
.. _`naming`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/18806
.. _`wanted to roll`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/18671
.. _`issue`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/18691
.. _`1`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/18794
.. _`2`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/19048
.. _`errors`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/18884
.. _`bit more`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/18884
.. _`clever fix`: http://news.php.net/php.cvs/33934
.. _`using UTF-8 encoded characters`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/18823
.. _`Tex`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/18862
.. _`PHP 5.1.0 RC2`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/18869
.. _`__toString()`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/19155
.. _`Stanislav`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/19181
.. _`new date.timezone setting`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/19187
.. _`solution`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/19257
.. _`timezone database`: http://pecl.php.net/timezonedb
.. _`notices`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/19310
.. _`why does PEAR not support PHP 5.1`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/19313
.. _`Dmitry`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/19336
.. _`explained`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/19343
.. _`Piotr`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/19465
.. _`wondering`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/19470
.. _`browser`: http://cvs.php.net
.. _`Matthias`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/19519
.. _`surprised`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/19508
.. _`simply missed`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/19512
.. _`routine`: http://oss.backendmedia.com/ReleaseChecklist
.. _`PHP 4`: http://oss.backendmedia.com/PhP4yz
.. _`PHP 5`: http://oss.backendmedia.com/PhP5yz
.. _`out`: http://news.php.net/php.qa/26069
.. _`raised`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/19448
.. _`"to clean up PHP 6 for real"`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/19491
.. _`typehints for classes to work with = NULL`: http://derickrethans.nl/typehints_and_null.php
.. _`"that new isset() like language construct"`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/19801
.. _`Perl-like`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/19825
.. _`"How about a good ol' beating with a large trout?"`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/19851
.. _`PHP 4.4.1`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/19860
.. _`upgrade guide`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/20003
.. _`noticed`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/20004
.. _`Andrei`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/20491
.. _`implemented`: http://news.php.net/php.zend-engine.cvs/4336
.. _`I did not do`: http://news.php.net/php.zend-engine.cvs/4335
.. _`PHP 5.1RC5`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/20066
.. _`curly braces`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/20102
.. _`exactly the same thing`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/20112
.. _`PHP 5.1`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/20321
.. _`"PEAR ignores coding standards"`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/20337
.. _`rename the internal class`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/20466
.. _`posted`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/20236
.. _`meeting notes`: http://php.net/~derick/meeting-notes.html
.. _`numerous`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/20586
.. _`polls`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/20682
.. _`labelled`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/20863
.. _`breaks`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/20277
.. _`filter extension`: http://pecl.php.net
.. _`it is a good idea`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/21188
.. _`PHP 5.1.2RC1`: http://news.php.net/php.qa/26614
.. _`user`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/21333

