The Y2K7 problem
================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: Skien, Norway
   :Date: 20070306 2304 CET
   :Tags: php, work, datetime

Right, that "Y2K7" is not a typo. It "refers to the Year
2007 problem, caused by a US-mandated change to Daylight Saving
Time" ( `wikipedia`_ ). From this
year the US (and Canada) changed the dates on when daylight saving time
is active. DST now starts three weeks earlier, and ends one week later.
This causes quite a lot of problems with software that hard coded those
rules. On Linux (and other Unix-like operating systems) this can be
remedied by updating the zoneinfo information - check your Operating
System's documentation on how to do that.

PHP before PHP 5.1.0 relies on the Operating System to provide time zone
information, while PHP versions 5.1.0 and higher come with a bundled
time zone database. The database that ships with PHP 5.1.0 already
covers the changes in the US and Canada, however, the US and Canada are
not the only places changing rules. Many places on earth change those
rules all the time which means PHP's database needs to be updated as
well.

Every PHP version comes with the latest release of the time zone
database at the moment PHP is released. However, it is also possible to
just update this data by installing the PECL extension `timezonedb`_ . This
extension is released whenever a new version of the `Olson database`_ becomes available. The current version is 2007c (2007.3).


.. _`wikipedia`: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Y2K7
.. _`timezonedb`: http://pecl.php.net/package/timezonedb
.. _`Olson database`: http://www.twinsun.com/tz/tz-link.htm

