PHP Look Back 2006
==================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: Skien, Norway
   :Date: 20070123 2146 CET
   :Tags: blog, cms, php, work, xdebug

It's the end of the year again, and that means that I (once again) spent
way too much time writing this wrap up of PHP in 2006. In this, the
fifth iteration of my annual PHP Look Back, we'll explore the happenings
of the PHP world in 2006.

Most of my time, in past years, went into figuring out all the links to
the news server, so I decided to omit these links this year, and
undoubtedly, readers will be happy with that as well, as it won't take
up 3 pages of HTML links in *php|architect* . Of course, in the
cases where I am quoting someone literally, I will still provide a
link.

As a little disclaimer I would like to mention that this Look Back is
mostly my own opinion, and it contains my experiences. Some things
should be taken with a grain of salt.

*January*

Andrew Yochum started the year with a thread on whether we should add a
new magic method, "__iscallable", as a hint to the engine
whether a specific method can be called trough the "__call"
mechanism. Although I think this is a good idea, the discussion
unfortunately turned to suggest throwing an exception later in the
"__call()" method whenever a method could not be
"called" through the "__call()" mechanism.

Tim Starling wrote that PHP 5 has a large refcount value that allows you
to have more than 65535 references to a variable. (Under
"reference" we understand a refcount value, that does not
necessarily mean that the code is using assign-by-reference or userland
references.) In somewhat extreme cases, it is very easy to overflow this
internal refcount value in PHP 4, and it is very difficult to track down
where this might happen in your code. To "fix" the issue, you
can apply either a patch that increases the refcount data type, or in
cases where you can not do that, and you want to be able to debug weird
crashes, I have a patch for PHP 4.4 that tells you when the refcount
reaches 50000.

Leon Matthews made the suggestion to add "friend classes"
support to PHP, but most people thought that `"friends ... seemed kind of hackish"`_ (and that's why nobody likes PHP anymore ;-)
).

`PHP 4.4.2`_ was
released on January 13th while the rest of the mailing list was still
discussing "Naming arguments"—the mechanism that allows you
to remember the name of function parameters, but does not require you to
remember their specific order. I don't quite understand why others thin
this is better, though... people also forget that if the internal PHP
functions are to support this, a lot of APIs need to be changed,
resulting in a slower PHP, most likely.

In the aftermath of the `PDM`_ , Dmitry
started a discussion on revamping the internal data types that we will
have for PHP 6. There will be two types from now on:
"IS_STRING" for binary data, and "IS_UNICODE" for
real text.

Marco was falling into the trap that you can not mix pre/post-increment
with variable use or `assignments`_ . An
example of this is "$a = 10; echo ++$a + $a++;". Please folks,
don't try to understand this, as it simply gives undefined behaviour,
and not `only in PHP`_ . Another more direct remark came from Jani: `"references ARE NOT POINTERS"`_ . Later in the month, someone got brave and
suggested that we use the "operator" extension to solve
this... *MADNESS* .

The JSON extension was added to the core distribution, but only after
the license changed to the "PHP Licence." Another extension, `xmldbx`_ was suddenly
added to the CVS tree as well, without any discussion up front. The
author was not aware that *all* new extensions go to PECL first.

There was also a very small discussion ( *AGAIN* ) that attempted
to invent a new (and ambiguous) syntax to define arrays in PHP.

*February*

Sometimes people are not very happy when you `bogus a bug report`_ , and to show
this, they write 14 page essays about the "PHP Support" of a
"respectable company."

Sara suggested the addition of a minor patch to the engine to facilitate
proper overloading support for the greater-than operator, but
unfortunately the idea did not make into the engine, yet—maybe for PHP
6.

Steph started a long thread about "true labeled breaks", which
are basically a messed up version of a proper goto construct. A big
"battle" between the people *for* and *against* "labeled breaks" started. This discussion ended up nowhere and
we had to wait until March for the next iteration of a discussion on
this topic.

Andi came up with a suggestion about marking PECL modules
"stable" to "crap/unfinished" and to indicate
whether there is an active maintainer, etc. In the end nothing was done
with the extensions, as apparently we think that it is very hard to do
an audit of all PECL modules; with the possibility this becoming too
subjective.

Nuno submitted a patch trying to catch segmentation faults, something
that might sound like a good idea, but it is very hard to do this
portably—nor can you always do this correctly. I remember trying this
with SRM some years ago, and all I would get is an infinite loop of
segmentation faults. The same patch also had an idea for limits in the
PCRE extension, which made it into PHP 5.2 as a set of INI settings.

There was another idea that suggested we create some sort of stack
protection to prevent infinite recursion, which is something that `Xdebug`_ has implemented for a few years
now. In my opinion (and that of others), this does not belong in the
core, as it is way too tricky and it's pretty hard to guess how many
stack levels you can go before things start getting hairy.

In the last week of the month, Mike Lively submitted a patch that
implements "Late Static Binding," something that was also
discussed at the PDM.

The patch had some technical issues, but there was also some opposition
from people who didn't understand why this sort of functionality is
wanted. There was also some opposition from people who attended the
meeting and had no objections, there. Mike made a second stab at an
implementation but it was never committed. Please Mike, don't give up!

*March*

At the start of the month, Marcus fixed the issue that prevented users
from enforcing constructor usage in interfaces. There were some
questions about the implementation, but everything was fine after all.
Dmitry thought it was a reply to his slightly earlier (committed) patch
that implemented "labeled breaks" that would allow you to jump
out of a break. The syntax looked something like:

::

	Label: while(1) { break Label; }

Many people found this the exact opposite of PHP's normally renowned
"KISS" approach. Andi then suggested two options: a) forget
about jumping, completely, or b) implement the real "goto"
that we already have a patch for. Dmitry increased the number of
possible options to 4 (1: goto and break label, 2: goto only, 3: break
label only and 4: nothing). After a vote option 2 was chosen, and
luckily the idea of calling our "goto" "jump" was
axed, as well. Now we can finally write nice spaghetti code with PHP!

More things from the PDM where done this month, as well. For example,
the removal of the notorious "register_globals", and
"safe_mode" was already axed.

A long standing problem with PHP is its incompatibility with newer
versions of flex. We only support version 2.5.4 and the latest (2.5.33
or so) breaks some things that PHP uses (the custom skeleton). Nuno
forwarded a bug report from the flex project to this extent. In this
report was the offer to look at this problem together, but this never
happened. Maybe this should be revisited in 2007?

*April*

In April, some of the PHP developers where contacted by `Coverity`_ about detected defects
in PHP. The Coverity scans analyze code in order to find (security)
bugs. Although there where quite a few false positives, the service did
(and does) help us to squash some bugs.

The old discussion on why "empty", unlike "isset",
takes only one argument popped up, as well. To summarize it again: if we
use the same algorithm for "empty()" as we do for
"isset()", things are unintuitive. "isset()" returns
true when *all* of its arguments are set, but

"empty()" would be more useful if it returned "true"
if *any* of its arguments were empty. Because of this
inconsistency, we're not going to support multiple arguments to this
language construct.

Rasmus mentioned that Google was doing their `Summer of Code`_ thing again. As
part of this project, William Candillion was wondering about whether
PHP's compiler could be changed to use an Abstract Syntax Tree. Dmitry
responded that the concept wouldn't really work. William later wrote a
PECL extension to generate such a `parse tree`_ .

Another SoC project that resulted in something useful is the new `GCOV`_ service we now have running for
the PHP source base. This service checks for memory leaks and code
coverage, similar to what `PHPUnit`_ does for PHP code.

Meanwhile, Michael Waller reimplemented PHP's output layer with the idea
of replacing it in PHP 5.2. However, it was postponed for inclusion into
PHP 6.0 instead, due to the enormous number of changes that it
entailed.

PHP's reference issues where also still not fully forgotten. Brian Moon
raised the issue of whether or not it was a good idea to pass the result
of functions (temp vars) as arguments to other functions that take their
arguments by reference.

Antony nominated some more extensions for (re)moval to
Sib"^W"PECL. Steph suggested that we put
"ext/skeleton" on this list, questioning its validity as a
skeleton for new extensions. Supposedly, the new "PECL_Gen"
(now called `CodeGen`_ and `CodeGen_PECL`_ )
obsoletes this small extension. Many of the developers where against
this, and only "hwapi" and "filepro" where actually
moved.

Edin started a (small) discussion on why it was not possible to create
static class properties on the fly, in a similar fashion to how you can
create dynamic class variables on the fly. In this discussion, the
saga-like wars between "strict and proper OO support" and
"lousy and broken OO support" came back. It was not the last
time, this year.

*May*

In May, Lukas offered himself to be `PHP 5.2's`_ personal
secretary and keep track of all the things we needed to do for this
release. That started a little discussion on how to make PHP 5.2 faster
again, with some cool new optimization tricks by Dmitry. This turned
into a new and improved memory manager that made its way into PHP 5.2.
An unfortunate side effect of this was that it brought up the long
standing issue of "ifsetor", or, as other people call it,
"coalesce". A branch for PHP 5.2 was created not much later.

We had a little discussion whether "filter" and
"json" where going to be enabled by default, it took some time
to convince Ilia to agree with this.

I got a bit annoyed by some changes in the OO workings that started to
break some of my (experimental) code. This time somebody committed a
patch that stopped "abstract static" functions from working.
(Yes, I know it doesn't make sense to allow this.) Marcus got a bit
annoyed by people complaining that there are no tests for this kind of
stuff so that it's hard to see whether things broke, and slammed back
with a post about PHP being Open Source and how it is free for everyone
to write test cases.

Ilia summed up two of the bigger "flamewars" (I would prefer
words "heated discussion"). One of them was about including
"E_STRICT" and

`E_RECOVERABLE_ERROR`_ into "E_ALL", which was first merged from PHP 6 (HEAD)
"accidentally" by Marcus. The other discussion was about
support for dynamic statics, such as:

::

	class foo {} foo::$bar = 1;

Some people where not quite aware what "E_RECOVERABLE_ERROR"
was actually a demotion of previously fatal "E_ERROR"s, but
after that was cleared up, the new error level made it into
"E_ALL". The other two items ("E_STRICT" and dynamic
statics) were not implemented as discussed.

Another feature suggested this month was "readonly"
properties. During the PDM, this was already suggested as a new feature.
Marcus quickly cooked up a patch, but later we found out that it would
be quite hard to create readonly properties, correctly, because of
references and splitting and some other stuff.

*June*

Marcus started a longish discussion on how to support objects as array
indeces. Currently this is not possible, and support for it would not be
trivial. The conclusion was that if people want to do this, they can use
the "__toString" magic method and "$a[(string)$obj] =
'value';"

Dmitry cooked up a patch end the mess that deals with freeing globals
when modules are unloaded. After some quarelling about whether we want
it in PHP 5.2 or not, everybody seemed happy and now PHP 5.2 has a
cleaner method of freeing those pesky globals.

Andrei started on a `new function`_ to "transliterate" strings, and Stefan was
wondering why there is "No easy installation for users
anymore?" because of an incorrect flex version. We still only
support flex 2.5.4 (see April, above).

Daniel wondered how to determine the length of a string in bytes in PHP
6's unicode strings, which brought up an issue about how useful that
would actually be. Luckily, there is still a workaround to get to the
number of bytes a Unicode string takes:
"strlen(unicode_encode($string, "UTF-16BE"));"

Nuno came up with a patch that should help GCC generate better code by
providing hints on which code branch is more "important."
Although most thought that this was a nice idea, many were sceptical
about the performance boosts it could actually give. It wouldn't make
the (already somewhat bad) maintainability of the code any better,
either, and consequently the patch did not make it into CVS.

*July*

Stefan announced a patch for file upload hooks. This patch allows
extensions to keep track of files being uploaded. Later in the month, he
committed the patch, ignoring the policy that new features first go into
HEAD, and then are later merged into branches.

Gwynne, "the daughter of the code" (?), suggested that PHP
should have a nicer summary of "./configure" output, while not
going as far as providing all the information that is provided in
"phpinfo()". Most of us were not in favor of extending the
extension API to facilitate such a summary, though. Matt W started
fiddling with the number formatting and reading things in PHP, including
many optimizations.

Michael suggested three new error handling functions:
"error_get_last()" to return the last error, and two other
functions that allow you to retrieve *all* errors, and reset that
list. Only the first function made it in, and it even works when
track_errors is disabled.

Ilia announced that he wanted to make the first RC of PHP 5.2, by July
20, of course that meant that many people wanted to get their features
in before that time. For example, Dmitry added the new memory manager
that was discussed in April, we finally got our first `quadrouple pointer`_ —something that is used when parsing a variable list of
arguments through the internal "zend_parse_parameters" API
function, and I enabled the new "DateTime" support that had
been dormant since PHP 5.1. Of course, the usual suspects where not
happy that this was "sneaked in," and the whole discussion of
renaming the classes to something extremely silly like
"PhpDate" just in order to make sure that user applications
could continue ignoring the recommended naming guidelines. Let me repeat
it in the words of Rasmus: "...PHP owns the top-level name space,
but we should use decent descriptive names and avoid any obvious
clashes." After a number of stupid ideas for names, the new Date
and Time classes made it in as "DateTime" and
"DateTimeZone", as Sara humourously `suggested`_ . We sort
of agreed not to pick very commonly used names, however that didn't stop
another person from trying to get a class with an ambiguous and wrong
three letter class name into the core in PHP 5.2.

Marcus and Andrei collaborated on a patch that normalizes and lowercases
identifiers in the engine. The normalization is needed because of
various Unicode-related things, the lower casing because PHP's
identifiers are not case-sensitive, unfortunately.

Richard came up with an idea to allow slightly more variations of the
names of the PHP ini file. Previously, you could have different php.ini
files based on the chosen SAPI, but his suggestion added ini separation
for different versions of PHP. We did not end up applying this whole
patch, but only the part that allows this sort of selective
configuration through Windows' registry.

Christian found some issues while using arrays returned by overloaded
"__get" methods in "foreach()". Suddenly, this
started throwing fatal errors pointing out that items returned from
overloaded methods can not be used in write context.
"foreach()" iterates over the array and therefore has to
update the internal array pointer—which is a write operation. The
error was demoted to "E_STRICT", and later it was fixed
properly in PHP 5.2.1.

John Mertic started work on an brand new installer for PHP on Windows.
This new installer features a bit more configuration and installation
through MSI which should make life easier for system administrators on
that platform.

In the last few days of July, Jani announced that he'd stop contributing
to the project. For the past 6 years, he has contributed in the form of
sifting trough the thousands of (bogus) bug reports, and he is the only
person still familiar enough with the PHP build system. Take care Jani!

Michael started a *big* discussion on the way how we currently deal
with OO "strictness." Unfortunately, there are a lot of people
who don't really care about decent OO coding and want to use PHP for
hacks only without thinking about making life easier for people who want
to write decent code—where the language helps spot thinking and
implementation errors whenever you make a mistake. Marcus worded that as
"I am not going to let people run into problem hell." From the
way that most of the people that matter replied to the thread, it seems
that our general course is now to try to be lenient where possible, but
still warn for OO strictness through "E_STRICT" notices. This
allows the people that write hacks not to worry, and people that want to
write quality OO code to still get their warnings/notices when they mess
up while developing. Zeev describes this paradigm `nicely`_ .

In July, also sort of reached consensus to split "E_STRICT"
into "E_STRICT" and "E_DEPRECATED"; this has not
happened yet, but will hopefully make it into PHP 6.

*August*

Unlike July, August was not so much filled with discussions. The only
things worth mentioning are the inclusion of support for HTTP-Only
cookies; a discussion on why calling undeclared functions aborts the
script. There were also a few new releases: 4.4.3, 4.4.4 and 5.1.5.

*September*

The month's discussions were started by Andrei, posting about whether we
want a per-directory/vhost/script setting to turn Unicode semantics on
or off, or just per installation. Many of the developers where against
having a setting that can be turned off on a per-directory/vhost basis
because it would complicate the already very complex internals of the
engine even more. Maciej even suggested that we get rid of the whole
setting as it's bad "to even give the chance of disabling it."
I actually agree with that, but the consensus turned out to be in favor
of a per-installation configuration setting only.

Terje suggested we add autoloading for functions, but as Stas explained
it is going to be a complex task to find which file to load for the
autoloaded function. As you often group your functions logically into
some form of module (class), adding support for autoloading functions
doesn't buy you very much.

Dan started a discussion about ext/filter's API. In the past months,
many things had been added in a quite inconsistent way, the result of
Dan's discussion was that we rethought some parts of the API and ended
up with what we have now.

Another user wondered what was wrong with "dl()". Again it was
explained that "dl()" would never work in multi-threaded
environments, and the whole concept of loading and unloading
".so" files in a Web server process brings problems, as well.
Because of this, PHP 6 will only support "dl()" in the CLI,
CGI and embed SAPIs.

The same Terje brought up the issue of type hinted return values, which
is marked as a todo in the PDM notes. Marcus simply replied that we'd
get to it when we'd get to it.

The last last thing in September: Christian announced that he wrote ( `an extension`_ that uses the new file upload hooks to allow a meter to
be displayed to the user. This extension now lives in PECL.

*October*

The "ext/filter" discussion concluded, and the road to PHP
5.2.0RC5 was free.

We were still discussing the "remove OO strictness" issue, as
mentioned above. The general conclusion seems to be again that we have
"E_STRICT" for this, and please, for God's sake, let this be
the end of it!

Richard was wondering about the default latitude and longitude settings
that seemed to be pointing at the middle of the Atlantic Ocean. If he
would have correctly interpreted east and west, he would have noticed
that the default values are actually for Jerusalem—the original
implementor of the sunrise functions is from the area. I suggested to
move the defaults to 59.21 N, 9.608 E instead, but with that I also
provided the coordinates that can help people bomb my house :). It's a
good thing that I'm never at home, I guess.

Sebastian did some benchmarking on a lot of different PHP versions,
compilers and optimization flags. While running his benchmark, he found
a couple of crashes—but they didn't turn out to be more than simple
stack overflows. The results of the benchmarks are available `here`_ ,
and interestingly show that PHP 5.2 is about 3 times faster for many of
the benchmarks than PHP 4.4.

We also got a new RC for PHP 5.2, the sixth one and Lukas made a last
plead to reduce some of the new errors in PHP 5.2 to
"E_STRICT" warnings. This happened in a commit by Ilia.
However, some people were quite surprised by this commit and another
lengthy discussion started about this same subject rehashing things, yet
again.

Richard was then wondering why "mktime(0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0)"
generates an "E_STRICT" warning. Actually, this type of
warning should have been an "E_DEPRECATED" warning instead,
but that error level doesn't yet exist. Lukas then sent an RFC trying to
figure out if adding "E_DEPRECATED" into PHP 5.2 was
feasible—but that would only have meant delaying it, again. "Not
going to happen" was the release master's (Ilia's) comment on that
one. In a longer post, he explained it a bit better, luckily.

*November*

Just before 5.2.0 was finally released, there was a post by a user that
the new "DateTime" class is breaking his application. Rasmus
was swift to reply with: "More people had one named Date, so we
changed it from Date to DateTime. You are going to have to change yours.
Sorry."

After PHP 5.2.0 was released, Dmitry committed a patch that fixed
several internal errors related to arrays and the "__get()"
method. Unfortunately his patch broke quite a bit of code and the error
was demoted to an "E_STRICT" warning—which was still
annoying enough and I kept on bugging Dmitry to fix it properly. That
has happened now, and the fix will make it into PHP 5.2.1.

After speaking with Rasmus and Andrei in Paris about the binary cast
operator, I submitted a patch that backported the (binary) cast to PHP
5.2.x in order to make migrating to PHP 6.0 easier for users. Not
everybody was happy with that, but in the end everyone saw the light. I
overlooked the "b""" type strings, however, but Matt
submitted a patch to fix this, a bit later in the month.

Although PHP 6 might breaks some applications, the goal is to make
applications written for PHP 5.1/PHP 5.2 work as much as possible,
without any real issues. From my own `experience`_ that seems to be
working fine, so far.

Hannes suggested a patch that implements type hinting for scalars. I
already wrote a quick patch for `that`_ during the NYPHP conference in June. This time, the response wasn't so
pleasant either.

We also had an interesting discussion about the behavior of the
"fgets()" function. At the moment it accepts a parameter that
tells the function how many characters (bytes) shall maximally be
returned. There is one catch, however: the documentation on this
function reads "From the number you pass shall be subtracted one,
one shall be subtracted from the number and not null or two." When
upgrading this function Sara "quasi-intentionally" fixed this
behavior. The "fix" was reverted because BC even prevails in
cases where it does not matter—sigh.

Dmitry was wondering whether we should support array dereferencing on
functions' return values—such as "echo foo()[4];". Although
it does look like a good idea up front, we found out that this might
have some "interesting" implications and it was not added in
the end.

Oh yeah, we also discussed namespaces again.

*December*

Lukas started with a post wondering about APC's "inability" to
work with autoload. His thoughts came from statements made by Rasmus
about how you will not get the full performance out of an opcode cache
when you use autoload as classes have to be re-initialized at every
request, and as they are conditionally included. In other words, APC
works fine, but it's just a bit slower when you use autoload.

There were two different threads about how variables are destroyed when
dealing with circular references. At the moment, PHP's memory manager
will not free this type of variable as it does not know which one to
free first—it's the traditional egg-and-chicken problem. In somewhat
larger applications (or unit test suites—hint hint), this can cause a
problem as memory is not adequately freed. Solving this is unfortunately
a major task, and I hope that in the next year we can have a good look
at possible solutions for this issue.

Ilia suggested we move a couple of extensions to PECL because they are
no longer maintained. One of the extensions he brought up for removal
was the COM extension, which seems to have quite a bit of issues
(according to the bug tracker). There were quite a few people that
disagreed with the move, and suggested that we try to find a new
maintainer for this extension. The mhash and sockets extensions were,
however, moved to PECL.

As PHP 5.2 now always has memory limit enabled (since PHP 5.2.1), Dmitry
raised the default memory limit value to 128MB the memory limit would
now be enabled for everyone. This also makes people on Windows happy as
they previously had to build PHP themselves in order to have memory
limit supported.

The single biggest discussion of the month (and actually year) was on
Wietse's proposal for taint-mode support in PHP. I did not find the time
to go through the whole discussion so you would have to read it yourself
if you're interested in all the different opinions.

As part of some closer working relations with Microsoft, Andi suggested
we drop support for Windows 98 and ME in order to use more advanced
Windows APIs. Those versions of Windows are no longer supported by
Microsoft anyway, so we didn't see any reasons why we would still have
to do so.

On the last day of the year, Kevin suggested we include the fileinfo in
the core. This has been on my list for quite some time as well, as it's
in my (and others) opinion extremely important that a language used for
the Web can correctly detect file types. A slightly annoying point
however is that the fileinfo extension requires a database file and in
order to bundle it with the core distribution, we should get rid of this
dependency (and compile it into the binary, just like the timezone
database).

*2007*

That was it for this year. I hope that I didn't miss any important
discussions in this wrap up. Have a good 2007!


.. _`"friends ... seemed kind of hackish"`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/21478
.. _`PHP 4.4.2`: http://www.php.net/release_4_4_2.php
.. _`PDM`: http://php.net/~derick/meeting-notes.html
.. _`assignments`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/21578
.. _`only in PHP`: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C_syntax#Undefined_behavior
.. _`"references ARE NOT POINTERS"`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/21584
.. _`xmldbx`: http://news.php.net/php.cvs/36657
.. _`bogus a bug report`: http://bugs.php.net/36249
.. _`Xdebug`: http://xdebug.org
.. _`Coverity`: http://scan.coverity.com/
.. _`Summer of Code`: http://code.google.com/soc/
.. _`parse tree`: http://pecl.php.net/package/Parse_Tree
.. _`GCOV`: http://gcov.php.net
.. _`PHPUnit`: http://phpunit.de
.. _`CodeGen`: http://pear.php.net/codegen
.. _`CodeGen_PECL`: http://pear.php.net/codegen_pecl
.. _`PHP 5.2's`: http://oss.backendmedia.com/PhP52
.. _`E_RECOVERABLE_ERROR`: http://derickrethans.nl/erecoverableerror.php
.. _`new function`: http://www.gravitonic.com/blog/archives/000157.html
.. _`quadrouple pointer`: http://news.php.net/php.zend-engine.cvs/5087
.. _`suggested`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/24719
.. _`nicely`: http://news.php.net/php.internals/25165
.. _`an extension`: http://pecl.php.net/package/uploadprogress
.. _`here`: http://sebastian-bergmann.de/archives/634-PHP-GCC-ICC-Benchmark.html
.. _`experience`: http://ez.no/ezcomponents
.. _`that`: http://derickrethans.nl/typehints_for_scalar_types.php

