PDO comments
============

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: Skien, Norway
   :Date: 20080128 1122 CET
   :Tags: blog, php, politics

I've been quiet so far about the PDO/CLA issues because I wanted to
think a bit more about it so the reply would not be an impulsive one. I
am `copying`_ it here for
additional comments:

*-*

I've been deliberating looking at all the comments regarding PDO2 and
the CLA proposal to allow for some more thinking-before-writing. My
first impression was not much unlike Pierre's though. Now that I have
spend some time thinking about it, I am replying with my thoughts and
comments. They are my *personal* thoughts on this and can not be
attributed to any other entity.

First of all, it's good that some attention is give to PDO. PDO is
useful, but also has many rough edges in the ways that it behaves
different depending on different database connection libraries. This is
highly annoying, even more because it's not really documented. Anything
to improve this is good, and support from the vendors themselves
definitely would help here. However, love to PDO should be given in a
similar way as to the rest of PHP. I disagree, but understand, how PDO2
got started. It's not that much an issue to start with a small group to
talk about certain new things, but it should have been possible for
other people to join as well.

The outcome of this process is however what went into the wrong hole for
me. From the start with Wez' commit to create a closed off module in *our* CVS repository I was skeptical. I've now seen the proposed
CLA and PDO license and it seems my scepticism is justified. PHP has
been an Open Source project for more than 10 years now, and I've spend a
good deal of my spare time in the last 6 years on it. Never was there
any need for a CLA although there were some minor IP related issues
which got cleared up pretty quickly. It happens, and a CLA can *not* prevent this. An example here is that when one of the
CLA-signed PHP developers talks at a conference with another person
(that did not sign the CLA) on some PDO related issues, the ideas that
this other person brings up can not be used as it's not own
contribution. This effectively stops discussing relevant technical
issues with peers at conferences for example. I know the CLA only talks
about actually stuff that makes it in (into the spec or code), but can
you really rightfully claim it your contribution if somebody else
suggested it orally? Another issue here is that we can't really have a
public bug tracker for PDO where people can put in patches. The PDO
developers (that signed a CLA) can not even look for issues as they
might be tainted with evil patches. This practise is in spirit against
Open Source as we've been practising it in the PHP project.

For now this CLA is only covering PDO, but once this precedence is set,
it can easily expand over the rest of PHP as "it works fine for
PDO". Another expansion could easily turn a CLA into an NDA if you
really make it look black.

Another issue I see with the CLA is the patent clause. Where I live
(Norway) and where I've lived (The Netherlands, Italy) there are no
software patents. The practise does simply not exist, and for good
reasons. Thoughts are free, and should stay free. It's absurd that
trivial patents such as amazon's "One click patent" are even *considered* to be granted. Because software patents are such a
moronic thing I would never agree to sign anything that mentions that I
"warrant that the submission of My Contribution will include
accurate details of" "related patents" "of which I
am aware off". Although the FAQ writes that we're not expected to
do a patent search, nothing is done to prevent the litigation against
individual contributers in case their contribution *was* to be
covered by a US software patent. This CLA does not give this protection
to the contributors that is mentioned in the FAQ. It merely serves the
interests of the big vendors which have 10.000s of patents themselves.
In order to do real good for Open Source, those patents should be
provided to the Open Source community free-of-charge. When IBM, MS and
other big ones (Sun, here is your chance) provide their patents
portfolio to Open Source projects other companies will think twice
before trying to sue PHP (or their contributors) for patent
infringement.

Besides some of the more legal issues, I've also concerns about
developer interest in maintaining, or contributing, towards CLA covered
bits of code. For eZ's projects we also have a CLA. There have been a
few occasions where this CLA prevented people from contributing code.
This is not what Open Source is about. It's not only about being able to
use code freely, it's just as much as making it easy to contribute back.
A CLA hinders this process, even more in the cases where simple updates
(API changes in PHP f.e., proto updates, operating system support
improvements) can not be done by every PHP contributor because they
didn't sign a CLA. I do know that there were not many contributors
actually looking at PDO before, but I think that has no influence on
whether a CLA is good or not. I think the lack of developers is more
because of the mostly (undocumented) complex workings of the extension
and its drivers.

Besides this, the PHP project is *our* project, and if the big
vendors want to make money through the PHP project by making PHP connect
to their products better, I don't see why they should not follow *our* rules instead of dictating their own. There have been plenty
of occasions as well where code (tests, fixes) were already contributed
by either IBM and Oracle anyway.

I also have an issue with the license for the PDO parts. Although the
FAQ writes correctly that there are some parts of PHP that do not fall
under the PHP License, all of those parts have not been written *for* the PHP project specifically - they were always adopted from
other sources. PDO is part of the PHP project, and should therefore not
come with its own license that has to be OSI approved again.

I hope that I didn't forget anything in this longish email, but it
should be clear that I'm totally against having a CLA on any part of
PHP.

regards,

Derick


.. _`copying`: http://news.php.net/php.pdo/24

