New website layout
==================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date:  2009-12-26 15:13 UTC
   :Tags: blog, php, work

Just like Xdebug's server was moved[#]_ to a new VPS at XtraHosting_ so did
my personal website (the one you're looking at). Hosting it on my own gives me
full control over what software runs it, and which PHP version and extensions
I run. I switched most of the code from a PHP 4.1 atrocity to PHP 5.3 goodness.

At the same time, I also moved all the contents from some self-invented XML
format to reStructuredText_. reStructuredText is a format that can be parsed
and transformed into other formats by `eZ Components`_' Document_ component.
Right now I am transforming to HTML only, but in the future I will also
transform certain articles to PDFs. Comments can also make use of some of the
reStructuredText formatting options, but there are still some things that need
sorting out there.

Besides changing the layout and converting the content to a more manageable
format, I also introduced a stream of dopplr_, flickr_ and twitter_ updates on
the right side. This is implemented by parsing the relative RSS feeds from
the different sources. If location information is present, this is also shown
in this feed. Previously I would only export an RSS feed for all of the
content, but with this site update, there is now a feed for every tag that I've
used. All RSS functionality is provided by the Feed_ component of `eZ
Components`_ (although a patch is currently needed for the location
information).

I'm not a 100% happy with the new layout, so most likely I will be doing some
changes in the near future.


.. [#] http://derickrethans.nl/xdebug-moved-to-a-new-server.html
.. _XtraHosting: http://www.xtrahost.co.uk/
.. _reStructuredText: http://docutils.sourceforge.net/rst.html
.. _`eZ Components`: http://ezcomponents.org/
.. _Document: http://ezcomponents.org/s/Document
.. _Feed: http://ezcomponents.org/s/Feed
.. _dopplr: http://dopplr.com
.. _flickr: https://flickr.com
.. _twitter: http://twitter.com
