Autumn Plans
============

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 20090914 1326 BST
   :Tags: blog, openmoko, php, work, xdebug

I've been missing-in-action on my own blog for some time. Moving to
London does that to you. Anyway, I've not been idle in the meanwhile at
all, and been working on some cool side-projects. First of all I've been
adding some features to `Xdebug`_ .
Xdebug is now slow reaching beta-status for the 2.1 release. New feature
will include proper PHP 5.3 support, variable tracing,
"scream" support and other minor features.

Besides Xdebug I've also been hacking on PHP-GTK applications for my `phone`_ . The
major new thing that I have now is a PHP-GTK twitter client that works
like I want it... and I even use it on my desktop instead of all the
other stuff that's out there. I will soon be publishing this client in
my CVS repository.

Now that the conference season is starting again I'm working on
improving several talks, as well as rewriting some parts for them. The
first conference that I will be speaking at, are part of `"Marco's Crazy PHP Conference Tour"`_ aka `CodeWorks`_ .
I'll be giving three different talks here, one on "Debugging with `Xdebug`_ ", one on PHP's `DateTime support`_ and one on
"Improving your development process" where I'll be talking
about Test-Driven Development and other tricks associated by running a
project. As CodeWorks is a bit like a rock-star tour, I'll be keeping a
video blog of it somewhere on the intertubes.


.. _`Xdebug`: http://xdebug.org
.. _`phone`: http://wiki.openmoko.org/wiki/Main_Page
.. _`"Marco's Crazy PHP Conference Tour"`: http://mtabini.blogspot.com/
.. _`CodeWorks`: http://cw.mtacon.com
.. _`DateTime support`: http://phpdatebook.com

