Xdebug 2.1.0beta1 released
==========================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2010-01-03 02:08 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, php, xdebug

It has been two years since I released_ Xdebug_ 2.0.0. Since then  I've
added many new features to Xdebug. For some of those new features you can
find a little description below—I will write more about these, and other
features later.

Besides the features, I also fixed a whole array of bugs and Xdebug
2.1.0 comes with PHP 5.3 support. From now on I will not be supporting
any PHP versions less than PHP 5.1 anymore. But now on to the
descriptions:

**Header Setting Interception**

All functions that set HTTP headers such as with `header()`_ and
`setcookie()`_ are now intercepted by Xdebug. The intercepted headers
are stored internally in an array that can be retrieved by calling the
`xdebug_get_headers()`_ function. This is very useful in cases where you
need to test certain functionality that sets headers somewhere deep in
code. This function is also used in `eZ Components'`_ test suite to
test_ whether the correct HTTP headers are set in the MvcTools_
component.

**Variable Assignment Tracing**

Allows you to record changes to variables in scripts to `trace files`_.
I've already written more about it in `Variable tracing with Xdebug`_.

**"Scream" Support**

The scream_ PECL extension disables the @ (shut-up) operator to actually
see all notices, warnings and errors that PHP generates. The scream
extension's functionality have been duplicated as Xdebug's xdebug.scream
php.ini setting. Why disabling the @-operator is a good thing, I've
already outlined in `Five reasons why the shut-op operator (@) should be
avoided`_.

**What's Next?**

There are still a few bugs left that need some attention, but this first
beta should have most of them fixed. Please test the beta as much as you
can and provide feedback in the `issue tracker`_. After this initial
beta it is like that one more more betas will follow before I prepare a
release candidate. Xdebug 2.1.0beta1 can be obtained through the `Xdebug
website`_ and a full changelog is also available_. You can also `follow
Xdebug on twitter`_ to be kept up-to-date with the latest developments.

.. _released: http://derickrethans.nl/xdebug-2-released.html
.. _Xdebug: http://xdebug.org
.. _`header()`: http://php.net/header
.. _`setcookie()`: http://php.net/setcookie
.. _`xdebug_get_headers()`: http://xdebug.org/docs/all_functions#xdebug_get_headers
.. _`eZ Components'`: http://ezcomponents.org
.. _test: http://svn.ez.no/svn/ezcomponents/trunk/MvcTools/tests/response_writers/http.php
.. _MvcTools: http://ezcomponents.org/s/MvcTools
.. _`trace files`: http://xdebug.org/docs/execution_trace
.. _`Variable tracing with Xdebug`: http://derickrethans.nl/variable-tracing-with-xdebug.html
.. _`Five reasons why the shut-op operator (@) should be avoided`: http://derickrethans.nl/five-reasons-why-the-shutop-operator-should-be-avoided.html
.. _scream: http://pecl.php.net/scream
.. _`issue tracker`: http://bugs.xdebug.org
.. _`Xdebug website`: http://xdebug.org/download.php
.. _`follow Xdebug on twitter`: http://twitter.com/xdebug
.. _available: http://xdebug.org/updates.php#x_2_1_0beta1
