Xdebug 2.1.0 RC1 released
=========================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: Schiphol, The Netherlands
   :Date: 2010-04-06 15:41 Europe/Amsterdam
   :Tags: blog, php, cms, xdebug, extensions

As earlier announced in my April Fools' announcement_ and on Xdebug's twitter_
feed, I'm now releasing Xdebug_ 2.1.0RC1. This is the first Release Candidate
and it addresses a number of issues_ found in the latest beta. As I usually do
in release announcements, I will also be introducing a new feature in Xdebug
2.1 in this one.

In an article_ that I wrote a few months ago, I illustrated a few different
reasons on why the shut-op operator (``@``) should be avoided. Although there
are a few cases where it simple can not be avoided if you want to write
notice-free code, the main reason why this operator should be avoided, is
because it makes debugging quite a bit more difficult if errors are hidden.

Xdebug is a debugging aid to make debugging easier. So from version 2.1.0
there is a new configuration setting — ``xdebug.scream`` — that simply
disables the effects of the ``@`` operator. That means that all errors will be
shown, of course, still listening to the ``error_reporting`` and
``display_errors`` settings. This functionality is not a novel thing, and the
idea was lifted from the PECL scream_ package. However, I think this
functionality fits in very well with all the other things that Xdebug has to
offer.

Just to mention it once more, I have no intention of making Xdebug closed
source. I spend a considerable amount of time in adding new features and
addressing issues, so I would appreciate it that if consider a donation_ in
case Xdebug has saved you time and effort in debugging your application. If
you have comments or suggestions to improve Xdebug, please write to the
mailinglist_.


.. _announcement: http://derickrethans.nl/xdebug-will-cost-money.html
.. _twitter: http://twitter.com/xdebug/status/11687180290
.. _Xdebug: http://xdebug.org
.. _issues: http://xdebug.org/updates.php#x_2_1_0rc1
.. _article: http://derickrethans.nl/five-reasons-why-the-shutop-operator-should-be-avoided.html
.. _scream: http://pecl.php.net/scream
.. _donation: http://xdebug.org/donate.php
.. _mailinglist: http://xdebug.org/support.php#list
