Xdebug 2.1.1
============

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2011-03-28 09:40 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, php, xdebug
   :Short: xdebug-211

I've just released_ Xdebug 2.1.1. It is a bug fix release that primarily
addresses issues in the debugging and profiling functionality of Xdebug_.

Among the bug fixes is a fix that solves an issue_ with newer versions of the
KCacheGrind_ profiling GUI. The newer versions are more strict with input which
causes an issue with Xdebug profiler_'s files. Xdebug 2.1.1 solves this_.

As an experiment_ I set up a pledge system to allow myself to work on this (and
related issues) during my "work time".  Twenty-four pledges were made, in about
two weeks; matching the goal. Sebastian, Jan, Michael, `Pale
Purple`_, Jeff, Christoph, Karel, Yannick, Jake, Venakis, Brian, Simon,
Kenneth, DM Baker, "gizmola", Ladislav, Volker, React_, Michal and three
anonymous supporters—thanks for your support!

Another_ main issue that was fixed was that line numbers (in function traces,
profile files and while debugging) for "magic" function calls (such as __get(),
__call() etc) were always recorded as 0. This made it impossible to set
breakpoints for example.

You can find Xdebug 2.1.1's source and Windows binaries at the download_ page. A
full ChangeLog_ is available as well.  Through twitter_ you can kept up-to-date
about Xdebug's development efforts and support is available through the
mailinglist_. If you think that Xdebug is a valuable tool, you can donate_ via
PayPal.

.. _released: http://xdebug.org/
.. _Xdebug: http://xdebug.org/
.. _issue: https://bugs.kde.org/show_bug.cgi?id=256425#c10
.. _KCacheGrind: http://kcachegrind.sourceforge.net/html/Home.html
.. _`Pale Purple`: http://www.palepurple.co.uk/
.. _`React`: http://www.react.nl/
.. _download: http://xdebug.org/download.php#releases
.. _ChangeLog: http://xdebug.org/updates.php#x_2_1_1
.. _donate: http://xdebug.org/donate.php
.. _Another: http://bugs.xdebug.org/bug_view_page.php?bug_id=00000642
.. _this: http://bugs.xdebug.org/bug_view_page.php?bug_id=00000639
.. _experiment: http://drck.me/sponsor-xdebug-8ky
.. _twitter: https://twitter.com/xdebug
.. _mailinglist: http://xdebug.org/support.php#list
.. _profiler: http://xdebug.org/docs/profiler
