QuickHash extension
===================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2012-01-04 09:04 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, php, extensions
   :Short: quickhash

One of the first extensions that I worked on when I started_ working for
myself a little less than two years ago was the QuickHash_ extension.
StumbleUpon_ asked me to look for a way to store, retrieve and tests against
large amounts of integers in a more performing way than PHP natively can do
with its array functions.

The data structures that they use include an integer set (QuickHashIntSet_),
an integer hash with integer values (QuickHashIntHash_), and an integer hash
with string values (QuickHashIntStringHash_) and a string hash with integer values
(QuickHashStringIntHash_). Each of the data structures can be assembled through
the QuickHash as well as loaded from disk and written to disk.

This is all quite possible to do with the array structure (and
serialize/unserialize) in PHP. However, storing 500.000 numbers in a PHP array
takes up 144 MB. That's about 288 bytes per number. The storage for this
number itself is 8 bytes (on a 64-bit platform) and PHP adds a lot of overhead
in the form of hash buckets, associated variable information etc.

**Memory Usage**

The QuickHash extension's main advantage is that it uses a lot less memory
than an implementation with arrays.  Where PHP takes 144 MB for storing
500.000 numbers, the QuickHashIntSet_ data structure takes up 8.9 MB for the
same amount of numbers. This is about 16 times less. 

For the QuickHashIntHash_ class, 500.000 integer keys and values take up 11
MB, where PHP's array implementation takes (again) 144 MB. PHP stays the same
because it is not possible for an array key to not have a value.

.. _started: /available-for-php-extension-writing.html
.. _QuickHash: http://github.com/derickr/quickhash
.. _StumbleUpon: http://stumbleupon.com
.. _QuickHashIntSet: http://docs.php.net/manual/en/class.quickhashintset.php
.. _QuickHashIntHash: http://docs.php.net/manual/en/class.quickhashinthash.php
.. _QuickHashIntStringHash: http://docs.php.net/manual/en/class.quickhashintstringhash.php
.. _QuickHashStringIntHash: http://docs.php.net/manual/en/class.quickhashstringinthash.php

**Implementation**

The implementation of the hashes inside the extension to PHP's hashes; except
of course that only 32 bit integers and strings are supported for key and
value—depending on the class. For integer keys a 4 byte hashing
algorithm by `Robert Jenkins`_ is used by default.  It can also be
configured__ to use an alternate hash by Jenkins or a simple modulo hash. The
default was the fastest and created the least amount of collisions in my
tests.

For the QuickHashStringIntHash_ class where the keys are a string, the classic
DJB2_ hashing algorithm is used.

.. _`Robert Jenkins`: http://burtleburtle.net/bob/hash/integer.html
__ http://docs.php.net/manual/en/class.quickhashintset.php#quickhashintset.constants.hasher-no-hash
.. _DJB2: http://www.cse.yorku.ca/~oz/hash.html

**Configurable**

The extension's classes are quite configurable. You can for
example set how many hash buckets it hashing implementation should use. As the
extension doesn't know your data pattern it is something you need to play
with. In the following example__/diagram we're loading 1 million integers from a
file with a specific format into the extension; each time increasing the hash
bucket size twofold. For each iteration, the file is loaded 50 times, then
10000 tests are made whether keys in the index exist. 

Running the script produces the following result (excerpted):

======== =============  =============
buckets  load time (s)  test time (s)
======== =============  =============
64       2.04           12.023
128      2.11           6.242
256      2.04           3.248
512      2.24           1.638
1024     2.27           0.840
2048     2.11           0.424
4096     2.42           0.204
8192     2.68           0.101
16384    2.74           0.061
32768    3.00           0.044
65536    3.99           0.038
131072   5.82           0.036
262144   7.31           0.037
524288   8.17           0.034
1048576  8.52           0.033
======== =============  =============

__ https://raw.github.com/derickr/quickhash/master/tests/bucketlist-size-benchmark.php


**File formats**

Another requirement was a fast way to load and save already populated hashes
and sets. The data structure inside the extension is custom, which means that
it can also be optimised for fast restoring from a string (or file). Each of
the four classes has it's own file format. For QuickHashIntSet_ it's simply
a packed array where every four bytes represents one number of the set. The
other classes have more complex serialized representations, and also include a
simple header (``QH<type>``).

The format used for QuickHashIntHash_ serializes each element as a `key/value
pair`__. The format for QuickHashIntStringHash_ contains a header, a string of
data containing all the string values concatenated and a `key/index
pair`__ where each index points into the data block containing all the
concatenated string data. The serialized format for QuickHashIntStringHash_ is
the most complex__ and will serialize the "bucket lists" so that the string
index doesn't have to be hashed while restoring from file.

The file formats are documented in detail on the ``loadFromFile`` method
documentation for each of the four classes.

__ http://docs.php.net/manual/en/quickhashinthash.loadfromfile.php
__ http://docs.php.net/manual/en/quickhashintstringhash.loadfromfile.php
__ http://docs.php.net/manual/en/quickhashstringinthash.loadfromfile.php

**Benchmarks**

Besides the already mentioned reduced memory usage, using the classes in the
QuickHash extension also provides a faster way of loading a set, and checking
whether an item is part of a set.

For loading a million items, PHP takes 1.5 seconds, whereas the extension's
QuickHashIntSet::loadFromFile() takes only 0.05 seconds. The memory usage in
PHP is 168 MB and when the extension is used, only 16 MB. In a table, that
looks like:

+-------------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
|                         | Native PHP             | QuickHashIntSet        |
|                         +===========+============+===========+============+					   
|                         | time      | mem. usage | time      | mem. usage |
+-------------------------+-----------+------------+-----------+------------+
| loading 1 million items | 1.90 sec  | 168 MB     | 0.05 sec  | 16 MB      |
+-------------------------+-----------+------------+-----------+------------+
| testing 15 million items| 4.98 sec  |            | 21.5 sec  |            |
+-------------------------+-----------+------------+-----------+------------+

**Conclusion**

If you are also interested in having some of your PHP code ported into a PHP
extension in C, please feel free to contact_ me.

.. _contact: /who.html

