OpenStreetMap: A Year of Edits
==============================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2012-01-01 00:00 Europe/London
   :Tags: openstreetmap, php
   :Short: osmyoe11

In the past weeks I've been working on some visualisations related to additions
and changes being made to OpenStreetMap. To start of the new year, I hereby
present: **OpenStreetMap: A Year of Edits (2011)**:

.. vimeo::
   :ID: 34404102
   :Width: 599
   :Height: 337
   :Title: OpenStreetMap: A Year of Edits (2011)

You can see the video in HD on Vimeo__.
**Happy New Year!**

__ http://vimeo.com/derickr/osm-2011


*How Did He Do That?*

This animation is all made with Open Source software. I haven't had the time to
clean up the code to make it releasable yet, but I am intending to do that in
the near feature and add it to my `OpenStreetMap tools`_ git repository on
github.

.. _`OpenStreetMap tools`: https://github.com/derickr/osm-tools

The first thing I did, was download all the hourly replication files from
http://planet.openstreetmap.org/hour-replicate for the year.

With a script, I scanned over all those XML files and for every three hours I
created an image showing the edits of those last three hours (in white), as
well as all the other edits in the background (in purple). With 4 frames per
day, this gives me 1460 frames.

Each of the frames is an equirectangular projection which I then map onto a
sphere with a faded background of "earthmap10k" of
http://planetpixelemporium.com/earth.html (I downloaded it *years* ago when it
was still free to download). For the 3D rendering of the Earth with the edits
layed on top of it I used POV-Ray_.

.. _POV-Ray: http://www.povray.org/

I generated two different loops so that I can make two full rotations at
different angles. This gives me in total 2882 frames which is about two
minutes. The POV-Ray generated images I post-processed by overlaying the
progress bar in the lower left and added the fading and merging effects. Then I
used mencoder_ to create a MPEG video out of it.  Finally I added the `sound
track`_ again by using mencoder and uploaded it to Vimeo_.

.. _mencoder: http://www.mplayerhq.hu/
.. _`sound track`: http://www.archive.org/details/TBECD005-MP3-192k-VBR
.. _Vimeo: http://vimeo.com/derickr/osm-2011

