Contributing Advent 18: Mapping without access
==============================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2013-12-18 09:10 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, openstreetmap
   :Short: adv1318

So, this is another one about chasing down issues on ITO World's analysis, and
probably not the last one. However, in this case it needed a little bit more
than photographing street name signs. This is the tale of `St. Mary's Place`_.

OpenStreetMap had this street as St. Mary's Gate, a road in the same area_.
ITO World's analysis had flagged this up as being incorrect, so before the
last `OpenStreetMap winter meet-up`_ I went to have a look. After checking
out an apparently `missing street`_, and adding it to OpenStreetMap I walked
towards the supposed location of St. Mary's Place. However, I couldn't really
get near as there was a gate_ blocking my way.

Not really a problem I thought, so walked to the other side of the estate and
encountered `another set of gates`_. Now I got annoyed as I had walked quite a
bit, and I still had to check out `Palace Green`_ before the meet-up as well. 
In any case, I was looking around to see whether there was a public entrance
after all, when a pedestrian left through a gate. Instead of trying to sneak
in, I just asked him about the name of the street… and that was it. He could
confirm that indeed St. Mary's Gate and St. Mary's Place split in the middle.

Getting to know information about Palace Green is tricky too, and that
conclusion will have to wait until I've spoken to Paul_ who mapped it in the
first place.

.. _`St. Mary's Place`: http://www.openstreetmap.org/way/32954706#map=18/51.49746/-0.19013
.. _area: http://www.openstreetmap.org/#map=18/51.49741/-0.19055
.. _`OpenStreetMap winter meet-up`: http://bit.ly/londonosm10
.. _`missing street`: http://www.openstreetmap.org/way/26741199
.. _gate: http://www.openstreetmap.org/node/376497546
.. _`another set of gates`: http://www.openstreetmap.org/node/371156450
.. _`Palace Green`: http://www.openstreetmap.org/way/157471066
.. _Paul: http://www.openstreetmap.org/user/Paul%20The%20Archivist
