Contributing Advent 24: Wrapping up!
====================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: Dieren, Netherlands
   :Date: 2013-12-24 10:33 Europe/Amsterdam
   :Tags: blog, php, xdebug, openstreetmap
   :Short: adv1324

Yay, the last one! Writing 24 blog posts in 24 days is a lot more work than
actually contributing 24 times. Let's go over the different things that I
managed to accomplish, and what you can do to continue some of that work
yourself.

**PHP Date/Time**

A few of my contributions are related to PHP's DateTime support. On the 6th_
and the 9th_ I wrote about a bug fixes in "Cookie formats" and "Day of the
week" calculations. The bug reports (`#61599`_, `#63391`_, `#63776`_ and
`#64294`_) mentioned issues all came with a good reproducible script. Please
continue filing bug reports, and make sure you follow the guidelines (if
possible/necessary) from the 23rd_.

.. _6th: /advent06.html
.. _9th: /advent09.html
.. _`#63391`: https://bugs.php.net/bug.php?id=63391
.. _`#61599`: https://bugs.php.net/bug.php?id=61599
.. _`#63776`: https://bugs.php.net/bug.php?id=63776
.. _`#64294`: https://bugs.php.net/bug.php?id=64294
.. _23rd: /advent23.html

The other DateTime issue that I touched on the 21st_ is probably something
that you can't really contribute too—unless you want to start petitions and
lobby to get rid of Daylight Saving Time altogether…

.. _21st: /advent21.html

**Xdebug**

I have been working on and off on Xdebug_ for about 13 years now, and it is
still a project I am very interested in. So it could not have come as a
surprise that there were four posts about it. Some of them, such as on the 1st_
("Xdebug and hidden properties)" were helped by a good `bug report`_. But
there are plenty of more bugs_ in Xdebug. Some of them I can easily reproduce,
others only with difficulty and some bugs are just weird. Going over the bug
list of your favourite project and trying to reproduce and clarify them is of
great help to project maintainers that do not always have a lot of time
themselves. In some cases, they might not even have access to the same
platforms (ugh, Windows) as what the bug report was filed for. 

.. _Xdebug: http://xdebug.org
.. _1st: /advent01.html
.. _`bug report`: http://bugs.xdebug.org/view.php?id=987
.. _bugs: http://bugs.xdebug.org/view_all_bug_page.php

Other ways to help an Open Source project is by answering questions on the
project's mailing list, or on IRC as I did in the post on the 8th_. Project
maintainers are not awake 24 hours, and especially if you are in a different
timezone, your knowledge can help other people. I often lurk in channels on
IRC to help out on Xdebug, PHP, OpenStreetMap and MongoDB. 

.. _8th: /advent08.html

And of course you can contribute to Open Source projects by just submitting
pull requests like I did for the 15th_ and the 20th_. Most projects will have 
guidelines on how to contribute. For example Xdebug has a contributing_ page,
and the MongoDB driver for PHP has a page_ on GitHub.

.. _15th: /advent15.html
.. _20th: /advent20.html
.. _contributing: http://xdebug.org/contributing.php
.. _page: https://github.com/mongodb/mongo-php-driver/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md

**OpenStreetMap**

Another large group of contributions (7!) are related to OpenStreetMap_. 
There are many things you can do yourself to help fighting commercial
monopolies on geographic data. Two of the
posts on OpenStreetMap (on the 2nd_ and 10th_) dealt with ITO World's `OSM
Analysis`_. This tool highlights differences between Ordnance Survey's OS
Locator product and OpenStreetMap. If you are in the UK, why not have a look
if there are any errors near you? For example, in Manchester_ there are 189
discrepancies right now. If you don't know how to get the right data into
OpenStreetMap, take a (geolocated) photo of the street sign and add a link to
it in an *OpenStreetMap note*. Please do not just believe OS Locator's variant
of the name, or copy any data of any other map. The only thing that will
suffice is proof (a photo) that the name is different. In some cases, you
might of course need more photos as I showed in the post for the 16th_.

I posted an article on OpenStreetMap notes on the 5th_. Notes **can** be
posted anonymously but then we see the text "This note includes comments from
anonymous users which should be independently verified." You can `sign up`_ as
an OpenStreetMap user, where it will be explained that you **can never copy
data from other maps**, but a nice photo of a street sign is of course good
enough as well. You can also add comments to notes as a user, and if you sign
up as a user, then you can also add and modify the rest of the map like I
demonstrated on the 19th_.

.. _OpenStreetMap: http://openstreetmap.org
.. _2nd: /advent02.html
.. _10th: /advent10.html
.. _`OSM Analysis`: http://www.itoworld.com/static/openstreetmap_tools/osm_analysis.html
.. _Manchester: http://www.itoworld.com/product/data/osm_analysis/area?name=Manchester
.. _16th: /advent16.html
.. _5th: /advent05.html
.. _`sign up`: https://www.openstreetmap.org/user/new
.. _19th: /advent19.html

**Hacking time!**

The last group of contributions that I want to talk about are for your *own*
project. I do lots of little things here and there, for example with the
geospatial_ extension that I wrote about on the 12th_. In my opinion there is
nothing more fun that to hack on your pet project. However, sometimes that
results in a project that you work on for 12 years (Xdebug!), so be warned!

Merry Christmas, and I hope this series of posts inspired you to make your own
contributions. Perhaps make it a new year's resolution!

.. _geospatial: https://github.com/php-geospatial/geospatial
.. _12th: /advent12.html
