Contributing Advent 6: C is for Cookie
======================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2013-12-06 09:10 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, php, datetime
   :Short: adv1306

Today we start with bugs in PHP's Date/Time extension. There are a `fair
amount`_ of them and they require some hard needed attention. So this post
addresses a number of bugs.

.. _`fair amount`: https://bugs.php.net/search.php?cmd=display&search_for=date&project=&php_os=&php_os_not=&author_email=&bug_type=&boolean=0&bug_age=0&bug_updated=0&order_by=&direction=DESC&limit=30&phpver=&cve_id=&cve_id_not=&patch=&pull=&assign=&package_name[]=Date%2Ftime+related

Bug #63776
----------

As usual I started with the most recently filed bugs and ran into `bug
#63776`_, which turned out to not be a bug. Titled *"strtotime fails with
'at'"* it goes about how a date string with ``at`` in it (like in ``"Nov 19,
2012 at 7:03 PM"``) does not get parsed properly with ``strtotime()`` (or
really any other parsing routing). `strtotime()`_'s documentation page
mentions *The function expects to be given a string containing an English
date format and will* **try** *to parse that format into a Unix timestamp*.
The word "try" is quite important here. In general, people are a lot better
at this sort of thing than computers, as they sense what is part of the data
and what is noise. In this case, the parser routine sees the phrase ``at``
as a timezone abbreviation, which it does not understand. And because of
this, it refuses to parse the string. If you use `date_parse()`_ you will
see what it actually parsers out of the string::

	var_dump( date_parse( "Nov 19, 2012 at 7:03 PM" ) );

which outputs (reformatted)::

    array(13) {
      'year' => int(2012)
      'month' => int(11)
      'day' => int(19)
      'hour' => int(19)
      'minute' => int(3)
      'second' => int(0)
      'fraction' => double(0)
      'warning_count' => int(0)
      'warnings' => array(0) { }
      'error_count' => int(1)
      'errors' => array(1) {
        [13] => string(47) "The timezone could not be found in the database"
      }
      'is_localtime' => bool(true)
      'zone_type' => int(0)
    }

Which mentions very clearly **[13] => string(47) "The timezone could not be
found in the database"** — the key 13 is the position in the original
string.

.. _`bug #63776`: https://bugs.php.net/bug.php?id=63776&thanks=1
.. _`strtotime()`: http://php.net/strtotime
.. _`date_parse()`: http://php.net/date_parse

Bug #64294
----------

The next one, `bug #64294`_, with the title *"date conversion problem when
dst present"* turned out not to be a bug either. Simply forgotten that
Daylight Saving Time already had gone away for the year. However, I should
point out that parsing a timestamp with: ``$date = new \DateTime('@
1382954400');`` **always** sets the timezone ``UTC``, and **not** the
configured default. This means that::

    <?php
    $timestamp = 1382954400;
    $date = new \DateTime('@'.$timestamp);
    echo $date->format('Y-m-d H:i O'), "\n";
    ?>

Will always show a timezone of ``+0000``::

    2013-10-28 10:00 +0000

Bug #53879
----------

However, there was a bug_ that needed a fix. Bug #53879,
*"DateTime::createFromFormat() fails to parse cookie expiration date"* talks
about parsing a date string such as ``Mon, 21-Jan-2041 15:24:52 GMT`` with
the factory method `DateTime::createFromFormat()`_. This method takes as
first argument a series of format specifiers to signal how the date string
should be parsed. It mostly uses the same format letters that the
`DateTime::format()`_ method uses to output a DateTime object in a specific
format.

In this case, the user did not specify his own format, but used one of the
`predefined constants`_ that is meant for displaying a DateTime object in a
format that HTTP Cookies want. The constant ``DateTime::COOKIE`` was in fact
just the string ``l, d-M-y H:i:s T``. The ``y`` here stands for a two-digit
year. Specifying the year in two digits appeared in the original `RFC 850`_
but has since then be superseded by a whole bunch of interconnecting and
contradicting standards.

The general consensus seems to be what is now on
http://curl.haxx.se/rfc/cookie_spec.html, but that was formerly hosted on a
now-defunct netscape.com page. This pages defines the date format as needed
for cookies as:

    The date string is formatted as:

    Wdy, DD-Mon-YYYY HH:MM:SS GMT

    This is based on `RFC 822`_, `RFC 850`_, `RFC 1036`_, and `RFC 1123`_,
    with the variations that the only legal time zone **is GMT** and the
    separators between the elements of the date must be **dashes**.

In PHP, ``Wdy, DD-Mon-YYYY HH:MM:SS GMT`` is represented as 
``l, d-M-Y H:i:s T`` to which I now changed_ PHP's ``DateTime::COOKIE``
constant.


There are plenty more issues, so we'll be coming back to the DateTime
extension.

.. _bug: https://bugs.php.net/bug.php?id=53879
.. _`DateTime::createFromFormat()`: http://php.net/datetime.createfromformat
.. _`DateTime::format()`: http://php.net/datetime.format
.. _`predefined constants`: http://uk1.php.net/manual/en/class.datetime.php#datetime.constants.types
.. _`RFC 822`: http://curl.haxx.se/rfc/rfc0822.txt
.. _`RFC 850`: http://curl.haxx.se/rfc/rfc0850.txt
.. _`RFC 1036`: http://curl.haxx.se/rfc/rfc1036.txt
.. _`RFC 1123`: http://curl.haxx.se/rfc/rfc1123.txt
.. _changed: http://git.php.net/?p=php-src.git;a=blobdiff;f=ext/date/php_date.c;h=b7da07c7bdba9e6c10289c5dde1a7ab8a9e7fd9a;hp=7e4de09c1ec7e812d9efa400df7b88bd29b30d4b;hb=23ab2575e1be062c2d5e3f80d3ff40cabe14fa2c;hpb=504c60dc4451b8ede8814530dbfec0ef485f0ca6
