Contributing Advent 22: Documenting changes
===========================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: Amsterdam, Netherlands
   :Date: 2013-12-22 09:10 Europe/Amsterdam
   :Tags: blog, php, xdebug
   :Short: adv1322

Probably one of the easier things to contribute to an Open Source project when
you don't really have much experience, or simply don't know the language well
enough—or in Xdebug's case, PHP's internals, is documentation. In the past a
few people, such as `Wim Godden`_ and `Jarl Ostensen`_ have already
contributed_ some documentation fixes.

In the last few months I have added support for `serialized "collect
params"`_, `XDEBUG_TRACE_NAKED_FILENAME`_ (issue `#971`_),
`XDEBUG_STACK_NO_DESC`_ (issue `#1003`_), and the `ability to halt on
warning/notice`_ (issue `#1004`_). And neither of those are documented now. So
this article is about adding the documentation of these new features.

Xdebug's documentation is part of the website, which has a project_ on GitHub.
However, it's not in any standard format. Functions are documented in single
files, such as `here for xdebug_start_trace()`_, and in a rather rudimentary
format that some other tools I have use to generate stuff as well. So a bit
tricky, and this is something I'd like to improve, however it's rather easy
to `add to`_.

`Configuration settings`_ are all in `one file`_ and stored as an nested PHP
array. I have now added a new supported value (5) for `xdebug.collect_params`_
which needs documenting too, which is as simple as `adding a new line`_ to it.
Of course, I have also documented_ the changes to
`xdebug_print_function_stack()`_ and the addition of `xdebug.halt_level`_.

Xdebug's documentation is (I think pretty good), but if you have sugggestions
I would be more than happy to get suggestions, or of course even better would
be a pull request.

.. _`Wim Godden`: https://github.com/wimg
.. _`Jarl Ostensen`: https://github.com/jarlostensen
.. _contributed: https://github.com/derickr/xdebug.org/commit/4468cba59c8dd43ae08e8ba1c852e50e11438c25
.. _`serialized "collect params"`: https://github.com/xdebug/xdebug/commit/c53907b8d776eb09a84deabb20bc1b7d8535ac7a
.. _`XDEBUG_TRACE_NAKED_FILENAME`: https://github.com/xdebug/xdebug/commit/f7d19d17662feaa4a5cd10d0866cc4f8fa4d892c
.. _`XDEBUG_STACK_NO_DESC`: https://github.com/xdebug/xdebug/commit/f13060eba1cf95aa7f9064c473e13cdc67d207a3
.. _`ability to halt on warning/notice`: https://github.com/xdebug/xdebug/commit/2c93aa440b9a2163d6f099409e28a578a61869dc
.. _`#971`: http://bugs.xdebug.org/view.php?id=971
.. _`#1003`: http://bugs.xdebug.org/view.php?id=1003
.. _`#1004`: http://bugs.xdebug.org/view.php?id=1004
.. _project: https://github.com/derickr/xdebug.org
.. _`here for xdebug_start_trace()`: https://github.com/derickr/xdebug.org/blob/master/html/docs/include/functions/xdebug_start_trace
.. _`add to`: https://github.com/derickr/xdebug.org/commit/e71c56ba4f41bc43f1b7b83fdadb875c6a625662
.. _`Configuration settings`: http://www.xdebug.org/docs/all_settings
.. _`one file`: https://github.com/derickr/xdebug.org/blob/master/html/docs/include/settings.php
.. _`xdebug.collect_params`: https://github.com/derickr/xdebug.org/blob/master/html/docs/include/settings.php#L142
.. _`adding a new line`: https://github.com/derickr/xdebug.org/commit/a2aa6a9502baa60491e73b74d6e55d0b20a6bfec
.. _documented: https://github.com/derickr/xdebug.org/commit/1e267fd17f2270a009e67c6da9fd7ac3e04e2336
.. _`xdebug_print_function_stack()`: http://xdebug.org/docs/all_functions#xdebug_print_function_stack
.. _`xdebug.halt_level`: http://xdebug/docs/all_settings#halt_level
