Contributing Advent 3: Zetacomponent's Mail
===========================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2013-12-03 09:10 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, php
   :Short: adv1303

Years ago when I was working for `eZ Systems`_ I worked on "eZ Components",
which then became the now defunct "Apache Zeta Components", and now finally
it's hosted on GitHub as `Zeta Components`_. In the last weeks `Thomas
Bachem`_ has been providing a few fixes to the Mail_ component. The Mail
component in Zeta Components has by far the most extensive implementation of
various email, MIME and header RFCs. This allows it to parse almost every mail
that is thrown at it. Combined with an excellent POP3, IMAP and SMTP
implementation is is **the** best Mail utility for PHP—and I am not only saying
that because I wrote parts of it.

However, just like as many other components in the package, it has not seen a
lot of love lately, and its test suite is still using some of the old hard
coded email servers that we used to use for testing when still at eZ Systems.

My first patch_ fixes a few notices that were raised while running the tests.
The notices were all through by the following line in the code::

	declare(encoding="latin1");

These lines were initially added because of PHP 6 functionality that allowed
you to set a character set for each file. As PHP 5 didn't really care, these
lines didn't hurt either. However, now PHP supports the line as part of the
Zend multibyte functionality, which I hadn't enabled, it started spewing
errors like:

	Warning: declare(encoding=...) ignored because Zend multibyte feature is
	turned off by settings in
	/home/derick/dev/zeta-new/Mail/src/transports/file/file_set.php on line 2

This tiny patch made those warnings go away, but there are still plenty of
things to fix left over::

	PHPUnit 3.7.10 by Sebastian Bergmann.

	Configuration read from /home/derick/dev/zeta-new/Mail/phpunit.xml.dist

	....................FS..............F.......F..................  63 / 639 (  9%)
	...F.F................F........................................ 126 / 639 ( 19%)
	....................................................S.S.FFFFFF. 189 / 639 ( 29%)
	.....S......................................................... 252 / 639 ( 39%)
	......................F..S.............FEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE 315 / 639 ( 49%)
	EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE 378 / 639 ( 59%)
	EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE 441 / 639 ( 69%)
	EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE................. 504 / 639 ( 78%)
	.............EEEEE.......E.EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE.EEE.E...E......EE.. 567 / 639 ( 88%)
	.E......E...E....E.E..F.....FFFFFF....FSSSSSSS........EEEEEEEEE 630 / 639 ( 98%)
	EEEEE....
 

So I've a bit more to do to make this test suite work fine again…

.. _`eZ Systems`: http://ez.no
.. _`Zeta Components`: http://zetacomponents.org/
.. _`Thomas Bachem`: https://github.com/thomasbachem
.. _Mail: https://packagist.org/packages/zetacomponents/mail
.. _patch: https://github.com/zetacomponents/Mail/pull/14
