Contributing Advent 23: Reproducing issues
==========================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2013-12-23 09:10 Europe/Amsterdam
   :Tags: blog, php, xdebug
   :Short: adv1323

Many users that find flaws in software will just shrug and find a workaround,
some will provide a cryptic bug report, but very few will actually write a
coherent bug report that makes it very clear as to how to reproduce an issue.
Without a reproducible case, it can be very tricky to find the bug, and then
subsequently fix it.

If people encounter bugs in `Xdebug's`_ `remote debugging`_ I very often ask
them to produce a `remote log`_ file. This log file will contain the
communication packets between Xdebug and the IDE. In some cases, this
highlights that an IDE did something wrong, or perhaps there is a
misconfiguration (often with path mappings!). Together with the script that was
used to create a log it is often very simple for me to reproduce the issue, and
then fix it. 

.. _`Xdebug's`: http://xdebug.org
.. _`remote debugging`: http://xdebug.org/docs/remote
.. _`remote log`: http://xdebug.org/docs/remote#remote_log

However, sometimes I get a bug report that goes along "the massive Symfony
application causes an issue". I can not do anything with that. Even though it
might be easy to reproduce (1. install Symfony, 2. install application, 3. run
massive PHPUnit test suite), I do not have the time (and knowledge) to debug
any random PHP application. As a user of the Open Source software that would
like a bug fixed, you should spend some time making it easy for the developers
of said software to figure out the problem. That means that you need to
dissect your massive Symfony application and produce a **small** script that
shows the behaviour. If possible, this script should also **never** rely on
external resources such as a database, or some SOAP service.

A reproducible issue is also one that you can **reliably** trigger. That
means hitting a single URL or executing a single script on the command line. 
With PHP or PHP extensions such as Xdebug there are sometimes issues that only
show up once in a while, because memory corruption do not always result in 
crashes. A few tools are available to more easily highlight those issues.

In almost every case, you would want to set the environment variable ``export
USE_ZEND_ALLOC=0``. Zend's memory allocator can sometimes hide issues because
of "clever" memory management, and by making PHP use the standard OS memory
management routines issues can show up earlier. Setting this environment
variable is especially important if you also use the second tool: Valgrind_.

.. _Valgrind: http://valgrind.org/

Valgrind is a memory debugging tool which helps me find things like using
uninitialised memory, memory that is already freed, writing out of bounds or
memory leaks. It is an unmissable tool for me in very many cases. Providing a
Valgrind log with a bug report is very helpful.

Valgrind is only useful if you have PHP and Xdebug compiled in debug mode. If
you use PHP from a Linux distribution's package you should install something
like ``php5-dev`` or ``php5-devel`` to also have the debugging symbols
available. For Xdebug you would need to compile it yourself (and not use PECL,
or a distribution's package).

In some cases, memory leaks and errors show up only when PHP or an extension
is shutdown. If an extension is already unloaded, then Valgrind can not
pinpoint exactly where in the code the issue occurred. If this happens, you
see lines with ``???`` in the output. By setting yet another environment
variable, you prevent PHP from unloading the module. This environment variable
is: ``export ZEND_DONT_UNLOAD_MODULES=1``. With both ``USE_ZEND_ALLOC=0`` and
``ZEND_DONT_UNLOAD_MODULES=1`` set, Valgrind gives the best results. And a bug
where Valgrind shows that Xdebug (or something else) does something wrong is
the best kind you can file!
