Islay: All the Peat
===================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2015-08-18 09:02 Europe/London
   :Tags: photography, whisky
   :Short: islay

Two years ago Morag and I went on a whisky tasting tour with `Rabbie's`_ to
visit a few of `Speyside's distilleries`_. Now, this August we left the smooth
and sweeter whiskies a side, and instead we headed over to Islay. Again with
`Rabbie's`_.

Day 0: Edinburgh
----------------

Our train up to Edinburgh was nothing special, except that Eastcoast has now
been replaced with `Virgin Trains East Coast`_. No real changes, except for
the name. This time however, we got into Edinburgh just as the Fringe_ was
starting. And that made *staying* in Edinburgh quite a bit more expensive. We
thought to be clever and book a hotel near Rabbie's pick-up point, but I had
failed to realize that they actually moved it—right next to the hotel we
stayed in last time.

The afternoon before the tour started, we had some free time in Edinburgh. We
promptly headed to `BrewDog's`_ pub to have a beer and play some
connect-four, before we headed to `The Edinburgh Larder`_ for a nice meal. On
the way back, we caught the last Sun rays hitting `Edinburgh Castle`_.

.. _`Rabbie's`: https://www.rabbies.com/
.. _`Speyside's distilleries`: /the-day-i-saved-whisky.html
.. _`Virgin Trains East Coast`: http://www.virgintrains.co.uk/
.. _Fringe: https://www.edfringe.com/
.. _`BrewDog's`: https://www.brewdog.com/bars/uk/edinburgh
.. _`The Edinburgh Larder`: http://www.edinburghlarder.co.uk/
.. _`Edinburgh Castle`: http://www.edinburghcastle.gov.uk/

Day 1: From Edinburgh to Islay
------------------------------

The next morning we got up quite early, had some breakfast at the hotel and
headed towards our pick up point at Rabbie's Cafe. With a tour like this,
it is always a bit of a guess on what sort of group you get. This time, we
were touring with two Swiss, two Slovenians, three Indians, three Canadians
and a very loud Australian. On the way to Islay we also picked up two
Japanese in Glasgow. On the last tour, we had a few people that didn't like
whisky, but this time one of the Canadians was actually **allergic** to whisky
(and beer).

It is quite a trip to Islay, but luckily we stopped at many places on the way
there. The first stop was at Luss_, in the `Loch Lomond and The Trossachs
National Park`_. From there on, we travelled to Islay with a stop at `The Rest
and Be Thankful`_  on the A83_. The slightly funny name comes from the time
where you had armies going down the Glen and having to climb up to the pass.
They could only rest when they got to the top - and clearly they were thankful
for that!

For lunch we stopped at the `Royal Burgh Cafe`_ in Inveraray_. I had to try
one of my favourite Scottish dishes, `Cullen Skink`_, a thick soup made of
smoked haddock, potatoes and onions. Inveraray itself is a small town on the
coast of `Loch Fyne`_. It has a pretty nice castle for which we didn't have
time, and apparently an old jail that you can visit.

After lunch we drove for a fair bit and stopped for a quick wee pint in
Kilmartin_ at the `Kilmartin Hotel`_ across from the parish church, before
having a good look at a set of standing stones. After another short drive, we
took some time to walk up Dunadd_, a hillfort and suspected capital of the
ancient kingdom of `Dál Riata`_.

We made one last stop to stretch our legs at Tarbert_ on our way to the
`Kennacraig Ferry Terminal`_ from where we took our ferry to Islay. After
about half an hour's drive we finally arrived at our accommodation in one of
`Bowmore distillery's cottages`_. On the dining table was a bottle of `Bowmore
12`_ waiting for us! We ignored the bottle and headed straight to the
`Lochside hotel`_ to taste different whiskies instead. We sampled:

 - `Tullibardine 228`_: Hints of dark red wine. But too young and sharp. *66*
 - `Tullibardine 500`_: Sweet smell. Toffee/fudge, and sweet woody sherry
   notes. *72*
 - Amrut_: Young and unrefined. Marzipan, vanilla, nutty. *70*
 - Kavalan_: Light fresh grassy sweetness. Perhaps some tropical notes and
   some vanilla. *73*
 - Royal Lochnagar Muscat Finish: A little watery. Very light fresh
   berries with nuts. And of course a muscat finish. *78*
 - `Bunnahabhain 25`_: Very complex peaty whisky. Rich berries, but I think I
   like the `Bunnahabhain 18`_ better. Not worth £220 a bottle! *82*

.. _Luss: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luss
.. _`Loch Lomond and The Trossachs National Park`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Loch_Lomond_and_The_Trossachs_National_Park
.. _`The Rest and Be Thankful`: http://www.arrocharheritage.com/HistoryOfRABT.htm
.. _A83: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A83_road
.. _`Royal Burgh Cafe`: http://www.tripadvisor.co.uk/Restaurant_Review-g186500-d1747818-Reviews-Royal_Burgh_Cafe-Inveraray_Argyll_and_Bute_Scotland.html
.. _Inveraray: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inveraray
.. _`Cullen Skink`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cullen_skink
.. _`Loch Fyne`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Loch_Fyne
.. _Kilmartin: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kilmartin
.. _`Kilmartin Hotel`: http://www.kilmartin-hotel.com/
.. _Dunadd: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dunadd
.. _`Dál Riata`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/D%C3%A1l_Riata
.. _Tarbert: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tarbert,_Argyll_and_Bute
.. _`Kennacraig Ferry Terminal`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kennacraig
.. _`Bowmore distillery's cottages`: http://cottages.bowmore.co.uk/
.. _`Bowmore 12`: https://www.whiskybase.com/whisky/35151/bowmore-12-year-old
.. _`Lochside hotel`: http://lochsidehotel.co.uk/Islay_Lochside/Home.html
.. _`Tullibardine 228`: https://www.whiskybase.com/whisky/55916/tullibardine-228
.. _`Tullibardine 500`: https://www.whiskybase.com/whisky/40745/tullibardine-500
.. _Amrut: https://www.whiskybase.com/whisky/13662/amrut-40
.. _Kavalan: https://www.whiskybase.com/whisky/18006/kavalan-single-malt-whisky
.. _`Bunnahabhain 25`: https://www.whiskybase.com/whisky/27789/bunnahabhain-xxv
.. _`Bunnahabhain 18`: https://www.whiskybase.com/whisky/14007/bunnahabhain-xviii

Day 2: Touring distilleries on Islay, part 1
--------------------------------------------

We had some spare time in the morning, as we were only going to be picked up
at 09:30. That meant we had some time to run in the morning. There are not
many paths around Bowmore, but I had scouted a nice route_ up to a local hill,
and back. I ran quite a bit slower, as clearly it was hillier than my normal
runs besides the canal.

After the morning run, shower and breakfast we were picked up for our first
distillery visit. But before we started the tour and tasting at Kilchoman_ we
spend some time relaxing on the beach at Machir Bay. After getting our
"fresh nose", we headed to the distillery.

Kilchoman_ is Islay's newest distillery at just 10 years old. It's so new that
it misses on many of the maps we spotted all over Islay indicating where the
8 distilleries are. It is a "farm distillery" and by far the smallest. They
malt some of their own barley, which goes into their `Kilchoman 100% Islay`_
expression. After our tour two years ago we did know nearly everything about
whisky production, but it was good to get things freshened up as well as
having a look at a malting floor. But of course we really came for a tasting,
and lunch. We sampled the following whiskies:

 - `Kilchoman 100% Islay`: Fruity, made with ingredients from Islay only. 25
   ppm [#]_. *73*
 - `Kilchoman Machir Bay`: A little salty and matured in a bourbon and sherry
   cask. *71*
 - `Kilchoman Loch Gorm`: Winter sweet with sherry. *79*

We also had lunch at the Kilchoman distillery. I think everybody from our
group had `Cullen Skink`_ :-)

After lunch we popped by Bruichladdich_ for a quick tasting. They are also
fairly new, but quite less traditional than most of the other distilleries.
They call themselves "progressive". Of course, Bruichladdich_ is responsible
for getting me into whisky in the first place, as they sponsored an evening
event at WhiskyWeb many years ago.

At Bruichladdich_, we tried the following whiskies (sorry, no notes as the
stop was so short!):

 - `Classic Laddie 10`_
 - `Port Charlotte Scottish Barley`_
 - `Octomore 06.1`_ - 167 ppm

As I already tried an `Octomore 06.3`_ and the `Classic Laddie 10`_, I also
managed to get a wee dram of a Valinch, of which I did buy a bottle. We also
had a sip of the Botanist_ gin.

On our way back to Bowmore, we stopped at `Islay House Square`_ to visit the
`Islay Ales`_ brewery. We picked up some local beers to take home with us.

The tour at Bowmore_ started with a film after which we went through yet
another distillery. The tour started with eyeing a `£100.000 bottle`_ of
whisky, and ended with the most interesting part: the whisky tasting. This
time, we tried four expressions:

 - `Bowmore 100 degrees proof`_
 - `Bowmore 10 Tempest`_: A little hint of banana, but only after a drop of
   water.
 - `Bowmore 15 Darkest`_: Bourbon and a little sharper than the first fill sherry
   butt *77*
 - `Bowmore 12, cask strength`_: First fill sherry butt

After the last tasting we dropped by the local Spar_, which has a wall full of
whisky. I guess that's why "Spar" was tagged onto the big sign saying "The
Islay Whisky Shop". We bought a `Classic Laddie 10`_ to share with the group.
Some of it made it home.

For dinner we had booked at the `Bowmore Hotel`_. The food was good, and there
was plenty of it. Actually, there was so much that we went straight to bed
afterwards, **without** another dram!

.. _route: https://graphhopper.com/maps/?point=55.75453%2C-6.285081&point=55.74784%2C-6.246715&point=55.754627%2C-6.286798&point=55.756945%2C-6.288643&vehicle=foot&locale=en-US&elevation=true&layer=TF%20Cycle
.. _Kilchoman: http://kilchomandistillery.com/
.. _`Kilchoman 100% Islay`: https://www.whiskybase.com/whisky/34145/kilchoman-100-islay
.. _`Kilchoman Machir Bay`: https://www.whiskybase.com/whisky/67739/kilchoman-machir-bay-2015
.. _`Kilchoman Loch Gorm`: https://www.whiskybase.com/whisky/66054/kilchoman-loch-gorm-2015
.. _`Bruichladdich`: http://bruichladdich.com/
.. _`Classic Laddie 10`: https://www.whiskybase.com/whisky/25087/bruichladdich-the-laddie-ten
.. _`Port Charlotte Scottish Barley`: https://www.whiskybase.com/whisky/43466/port-charlotte-scottish-barley
.. _`Octomore 06.1`: https://www.whiskybase.com/whisky/43463/octomore-edition-061-167
.. _`Octomore 06.3`: https://www.whiskybase.com/whisky/45178/octomore-edition-063-258
.. _Botanist: http://www.bruichladdich.com/the-botanist-islay-dry-gin
.. _`Islay House Square`: http://www.islayhouse.co.uk/#!islay-house-square/cv0j
.. _`Islay Ales`: http://www.islayales.co.uk/
.. _Bowmore: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bowmore_distillery
.. _`£100.000 bottle`: http://money.aol.co.uk/2012/10/09/worlds-most-expensive-whisky-to-fetch-150-000/
.. _`Bowmore 100 degrees proof`: https://www.whiskybase.com/whisky/30380/bowmore-100-degrees-proof
.. _`Bowmore 10 Tempest`: https://www.whiskybase.com/whisky/18493/bowmore-tempest
.. _`Bowmore 15 Darkest`: https://www.whiskybase.com/whisky/8238/bowmore-darkest
.. _`Bowmore 12, cask strength`: https://www.whiskybase.com/whisky/68560/bowmore-2002
.. _Spar: http://www.islaywhiskyshop.com/
.. _`Bowmore Hotel`: http://bowmorehotel.co.uk/
.. _Phenol: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phenol
