Whisky Advent 2015
==================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2015-12-25 09:01 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, whisky
   :Short: whisky15

December 1st: Bunnahabhain 12
-----------------------------

*Tasting notes*: Caramel and salt, with peaty undertones and a little herbal.

*About Bunnahabhain:* One of our favourite drams, well, the 18 year old that
is. The 12 year old is also very drinkable. Sadly, we did not manage to visit
the `Bunnahabhain distillery`_ on our `whisky tour`_ to Islay last year.

Amazon sells it for `£35 on amazon.co.uk`__.

.. _`whisky tour`: /islay.html
.. _`Bunnahabhain distillery`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bunnahabhain_Distillery
__ http://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B004EY1T4E/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1634&creative=19450&creativeASIN=B004EY1T4E&linkCode=as2&tag=derickrethans-21

December 2st: Bunnahabhain 18
-----------------------------

*Tasting notes*: Caramel and sherry, oily and dense. Perhaps a little salt and
nutty too

*About Bunnahabhain:* The bigger brother of yesterday's 12 year old. It's
quite a bit nicer, but also quite a bit pricier :-)

Amazon sells it for `£80 on amazon.co.uk`__.

__ http://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B008CYY3BS/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1634&creative=19450&creativeASIN=B008CYY3BS&linkCode=as2&tag=derickrethans-21

December 3rd: House of Lords whisky
-----------------------------------

*Tasting notes*: Apple toffee - very mellow, and easy to drink. I guess that's
why the Lords don't get a lot of stuff done.

*About the House of Lords whisky:* This `Speyside Single Malt whisky`_ is aged
for 10 years. It's specially selected for the House of Lords, this Single
Malt has been aged in oak sherry casks in Scotland for a minimum of ten
years. It has been distilled following the age old tradition of the Scottish
Highlands, from the finest selection of malted barley.

.. _`Speyside Single Malt whisky`: https://www.whiskybase.com/whisky/6785/house-of-lords-10-year-old-single-highland-malt-scotch-whisky

December 4th: Old Malt Cask: Single Cask 21 year old Strathmill
---------------------------------------------------------------

*Tasting notes*: Sweet vanilla custard with caramel, with a hint of pepper at
the end.

*About the whisky*: It got given to me by an anonymous benefactor—allegedly
because of my work on Xdebug_. It's single cask and one of only 294 bottles at
50% ABV. The Strathmill_ distillery itself is in the heart of Speyside and is
currently owned by Diageo_. They mostly use the whisky that this distillery
produces in blended malts such as J&B whisky. Luckily, this one has escaped
this horrendous outcome and stayed a nice single cask whisky for us to enjoy.

.. _Xdebug: http://xdebug.org
.. _Strathmill: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Strathmill
.. _Diageo: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diageo

December 5th: Octomore 6.3
--------------------------

*Tasting notes*: Honey, peat, and some herbal tones, and alcohol. It lingers
very long.

*About the whisky*: The `Octomore 06.3`_ is a 5 year aged whisky, made from
single field of barley from Islay—and hence, party of their "Islay Barley"
series. It is one of the heaviest peated whiskies with a phenol_ count of 258
ppm_, and it's cask strength at 64% too. Although it is so heavily peated, and
it is most definitely there while tasting it, it is not overreaching and
drowning out everything else, which I sometimes find with some of the much
less peated Islay whiskies. We bought this bottle on our first anniversary at
`Milroy's`_ after having gotten a free tasting at their bar after dinner. It
does not come cheap at about £150.

.. _`Octomore 06.3`: https://www.whiskybase.com/whisky/45178/octomore-edition-063-258
.. _phenol: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phenol#Occurrence_in_whisky
.. _ppm: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parts-per_notation#ppm
.. _`Milroy's`: http://shop.milroys.co.uk/

December 6th: Single cask Glengoyne 14, bottled by Cadenhead's
--------------------------------------------------------------

*Tasting notes*: Peppery and very big. It's a bit chewy with hints of Sherry
and toffee.

*About the whisky*: This__ is one of `Cadenhead's`_ `small batch`_ bottlings. As
one of 840 bottles, it is not a single cask whisky. It was distilled in 2001
and at 14 years old, bottled at 46% ABV.

__ https://www.whiskybase.com/whisky/69624/glengoyne-2001-ca
.. _`Cadenhead's`: http://www.whiskytastingroom.com/
.. _`small batch`: http://www.whiskytastingroom.com/cadenheads-small-batch-whisky


December 7th: Hakushu 12
------------------------

*Tasting notes*: Light fruity whisky with some grass and ginger hints. A bit
buttery on the palette.

*About the whisky*: A single malt whisky__ by Suntory. The Japanese distillery
of Hakushu set in a forest, and often touted to be the source of the grassy
notes of the whiskies.

__ https://www.whiskybase.com/whisky/5446/hakushu-12-year-old

December 8th: Hibiki 12
-----------------------

*Tasting notes*: Sweet oranges with a hint of cloves. A wee bit of oak and
sherry on the palette.

Another Japanese whisky for tonight. This 12 year old blended Japanese whisky.
Hibiki includes malt whisky from Yamazaki and Hakushu, as well as grain whisky
from Chita. The whisky is partly matured in plum liqueur barrels.

December 9th: Lagavulin Distiller's edition 4/501
-------------------------------------------------

*Tasting notes*: A caramelly peaty expression from Lagavullin. Ending in a
typical Pedro Ximenez sherry.

At some point in the mid- to late 1990s, Diageo started releasing versions of
their "six classic malts" which had all been finished in some kind of
fortified wine. This series of whiskies, called Distiller's Edition.

This whisky__ is an 18 year old limited edition of about 3000 bottles, distilled
in 1995 (and bottled in 2013). It's double matured, of which the second
maturation in a Pedro Ximenez sherry cask.

__ https://www.whiskybase.com/whisky/40926/lagavulin-1995

Sadly, with this tasting, I finished the bottle :-(


December 10th: anCnonc 22
-------------------------

*Tasting notes*: Christmas pudding in liquid form. Honey and butter, with
oranges, cloves and nutmeg. Finalizes with some spicy smokey hints.

*About the whisky*: This is a relatively new anCnoc_, distilled at the
Knockdhu_ distillery. Its relatively low profile compared to some other
Speyside malts, they've been quietly producing very good whiskies for some
time now. It is aged in both American bourbon casks and Spanish oak
Oloroso sherry-seasoned casks for a period of 22 years.

.. _anCnoc: https://www.whiskybase.com/whisky/39696/an-cnoc-22-year-old
.. _Knockdhu: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knockdhu_distillery


December 11th: Taketsuru 17
---------------------------

*Tasting notes*: Warm mellow honey. Hints of peat perhaps? But a bit of bitter
oak. Doesn't linger long, and it's a little bit creamy on the palette.

*About the whisky*: This is a 17 year old blended malt named for Nikka's
founder, the whisky-pilgrim Masataka Taketsuru. It won a few awards (best
Blended, and best Blended Japanese malt) at the `World Whisky Awards`_.

.. _`World Whisky Awards`: http://www.worldwhiskiesawards.com/nikka-whisky-taketsuru-pure-malt-17-years-old.13912.html


December 12th: Single cask Strathmill, bottled by Cadenhead's
-------------------------------------------------------------

*Tasting notes*: Oaky vanilla and sharp berries. Lingers medium long with an
orange and red wine hint, a little bit tangy.

*About the whisky*: A single cask whisky distilled in 1995 and bottled in
2015. This 19 year old whisky was bottled at 55.1% ABV and was finished in a
`Château Lafite`_ wine cask for the last 6 years. It's one of 264 bottles.

.. _`Château Lafite`: http://www.lafite.com/en/chateau-lafite-rothschild/


December 13th: Single cask Ord, bottled by Cadenhead's
------------------------------------------------------

*Tasting notes*: Warm honey, cherries, and chocolate on the palette. Notes of
rum on the finish.

*About the whisky*: This is a 10 year old whisky aged in a Bourbon Butt. It is
one of 420 bottles and bottled at 60.9% ABV. Technically, this is not mine,
but the Mrs'.


December 14th: Single cask Ord, bottled by Cadenhead's
------------------------------------------------------

*Tasting notes*: Butterscotch, and raisins. Hints of spices (nutmeg? cloves?)
and lingering honey.

*About the whisky*: This is a twin whisky to yesterday's malt. Just like
above, this is a 10 year old whisky aged in a Bourbon Butt. It is
one of 450 bottles and bottled, slightly less, at 60.5% ABV.

Even though the whiskies are the same age, from a similar type of cask, and
distilled and bottled at the same time, their characteristics are really quite
different different. It all comes from the differences between single casks
only.

December 15th: Finlaggan Cask Strength
--------------------------------------

*Tasting notes*: Definitely an Islay, as the peat is very much centre stage. 
It is oily, and it has a finish of ash. It is a little better with a drop of
water.

*About the whisky*: Very difficult to find information about on-line. It is an
Islay whisky, but they're being secret about which distillery. Whiskybase does
not have this specific whisky yet - although there are 2012, 2013 and (I
believe) 2014 variants on there. I got it as a gift from Daaron_, through my
`Amazon wishlist`_.

The whisky is bottled at cask strength at 58% ABV. Some more information at
http://www.vintagemaltwhisky.com/finlaggan/.

.. _Daaron: https://www.linkedin.com/in/daaron-dwyer-aa49b994
.. _`Amazon wishlist`: http://www.amazon.co.uk/registry/wishlist/SLCB276UZU8B


December 16th: The Arran Malt 12yo Cask Strength Batch #5
---------------------------------------------------------

*Tasting notes*: Light and a bit salty with oak. Sweet sherry, but chewy. The
finish isn't very long at all.

*About the whisky*: This the `fifth batch`_ of the cask strength 12 year old
Arran malt. It's a reasonably small batch with 18000 bottles, and it is
bottled at 52.9% ABV. It was bottled in May 2015.

.. _`fifth batch`: https://www.whiskybase.com/whisky/69352/arran-12-year-old

December 17th: Longrow Red peated
---------------------------------

*Tasting notes*: Sweet berries, and a little woody. Minor hints of peat, but
that makes it nice and Christmassy. With a little water there are more gently
flavours, such as some prunes and raisins. Ends with peat and hints of mango.

*About the whisky*: This whisky__ aged 12 years - 11 years in a standard
bourbon cask, and another year finished New Zealand Pinot Noir wine casks. The
whisky is distilled at the Springbank distillery in the Campbeltown region.
It's a limited released, and bottled at 52.9% ABV. There are only 9000 bottles
of it—well, 8999 at most, as mine is nearly finished!

__ https://www.whiskybase.com/whisky/71395/12-year-old

December 18th: Highland Park 21
-------------------------------

*Tasting notes*: Light fresh caramel and smoky spices. The finish is little
oaky, and the palette is a bit watery. There are also lingering hints hints of
aniseed.

*About the whisky*: The 21 year old has one Best Single Malt of the Year at
the World Whisky Awards 2009. It is bottled at a higher strength than normal
non-cask-strength whiskies at 47.5% ABV. The whisky__ was released in 2007 and
considered one of the better expressions from Highland Park. I find it a bit
expensive for what it is, and would prefer many single cask whiskies over this
one. The distillery itself is based on the Orkneys_, a group of islands North
of Scotland.

__ https://www.whiskybase.com/whisky/69186/highland-park-21-year-old
.. _Orkneys: http://www.openstreetmap.org/relation/375761

December 19th: Waitrose Islay 12 year old
-----------------------------------------

*Tasting notes*: Very smooth, and little hints of peat. It starts with a
little peppery spice, and there is vanilla, and then it ends with smoke. The
palette is a little watery, but this is a very drinkable whisky.

*About the whisky*: It is an "Islay" whisky from Waitrose. But they're secret
about which distillery it is. The label hints that it is a seaside whisky from
Islay (which excludes Kilchoman), and that it's over 150 years old. Ardbeg,
Laphroig and Lagavulin are over 200 years old, so that should leave only
Coal Ila. Then again, it doesn't taste like a Coal Ila… who knows? That's
all the fun :-) This is a bottle I got given for my birthday (which is coming
up on the 22nd).

December 20th: Ardbeg Auriverdes
--------------------------------

*Tasting notes*: On the peatier side, with burnt oak, but at the same time
some vanilla and caramel. The peat is quite medicinal. It is a little watery
on the palette, and it has a long smoky after taste bordering on ash.

*About the whisky*: A special edition single malt launched on Ardbeg Day 2014.
Auriverdes_ stands for Gold and Green, and is a name used to refer to Brazil's
sports teams, most notable the football team. In this case, it refers to both
the football world championship in Brazil, as well as the golden whisky and
the iconic Ardbeg green bottle it dwells within. It is quite a limit release,
and not easy to get any more. I've just opened it!

.. _Auriverdes: http://www.ardbeg.com/ardbeg/auriverdes

December 21st: Glentauchers 15
------------------------------

*Tasting notes*: Oaky on the smell and lingering oak on the after taste. Quite
alcoholic which overpowers a little. Needs a drop or two of water. Scent has a
little vanilla, and it is a little sweet like a dry fino sherry.

*About the whisky*: Got this as a minature from Cadenhead's on the birthday
trip as Belgium isn't known for its whisky.

December 22nd: Ardmore
----------------------

*Tasting notes*: Peaty earths, but it has sweetness.

*About the whisky*: It is a non-chill filtered whisky, so it can get a little
cloudy - but it does have additional colouring added. I got this given as part
of my birthday presents.
