Detecting Problems With -fsanitize
==================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2017-07-21 09:44 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, php, mongodb
   :Short: san

In the past few months I have been working on adding time zone support to
`MongoDB's`_ `Aggregation Framework`_. This support brings in the timelib_
library that is also used in PHP_ and HHVM_ to do time zone calculations. One
of the stages in our workflow before we commit code to master, is to put our
patches up onto our continuous integration platform Evergreen_, where tests
are run against multiple platforms. You expect the usual Ubuntu, RHEL and
Windows platforms, but we *also* run on more esoteric platforms like s390. We
also define a few special platforms that run tests in an environment where the
code has been compiled in a special mode to test for undefined behaviour in
the C language, and memory leaks.

.. _`MongoDB's`: https://www.mongodb.com
.. _`Aggregation Framework`: https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/aggregation/
.. _timelib: https://github.com/derickr/timelib
.. _PHP: https://php.net
.. _HHVM: http://hhvm.com/
.. _Evergreen: https://github.com/evergreen-ci/evergreen

One of the issues that this found (quite quickly) in timelib_, was::

	src/third_party/timelib-2017.05beta3/parse_tz.c:152:16: runtime error:
	  left shift of 128 by 24 places cannot be represented in type 'int'

Which referred to the following code_::

	buffer[i] = timelib_conv_int(buffer[i]);

`timelib_conv_int` is a macro defined as::

	#define timelib_conv_int(l) ((l & 0x000000ff) << 24) + \
		((l & 0x0000ff00) << 8) + ((l & 0x00ff0000) >> 8) + \
		((l & 0xff000000) >> 24)

.. _code: https://github.com/derickr/timelib/blob/2017.05beta3/parse_tz.c#L152

The sanitiser stumbled over some of the data in the Olson_ database where
we attempted to shift the unsigned integer 128 left by 24 positions into an
**signed integer**, which of course can not represent this value. Thanks
to the sanitizer, beta4 has this problem now fixed_.

.. _Olson: https://www.iana.org/time-zones
.. _fixed: https://github.com/derickr/timelib/blob/2017.05beta4/parse_tz.c#L49-L62

As part of the fix, I investigated how our tests managed to figure out that
there was undefined behaviour. It appeared that GCC_ and clang_ have a
specific flag to enable this debugging tool. It is as simple as adding
``-fsanitize=undefined`` to your build flags, which is what timelib in its
standalone Makefile now includes_.

.. _GCC: https://gcc.gnu.org/
.. _clang: https://clang.llvm.org/
.. _includes: https://github.com/derickr/timelib/blob/2017.05beta4/Makefile#L2

One of the things that is tricky is that when writing C++, I tend to use many
C-isms as that is what I have been working in for so long. And the opposite is
true to. C++-isms are sometimes used when dealing with the timelib library
which is written in C. One of these issues created a memory leak (fixed
through `this patch`_), as a structure was not allocated on the heap, but on
the stack. This structure (`timelib_time*`) sometimes contains an extra string
(for the time zone abbreviate) that needs to be freed if set. 

.. _`this patch`: https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/commit/fbcf295fff8fe1723120345126be90a49d7b6d14

This memory leak was also discovered by a sanitizer flag, but this time it was
``-fsanitize=address``. This flag adds code to the compiled binary to test for
memory leaks, overflows, etc.—not to dissimilar as to what Valgrind_ (I wrote
about that before_) provides. After adding this flag to the default build
rules for timelib, it quickly found a few other memory leaks in some test and
example files which I then addressed_.

.. _Valgrind: http://valgrind.org/
.. _before: /valgrind-null.html
.. _addressed: https://github.com/derickr/timelib/commit/60603b3e26dbe393835221f56d0c4312800203bb

So there we have it, two new GCC and Clang flags that I did not know about. I
now always compile timelib, as well as my local MongoDB test builds with these
two flags. It certainly slows down execution, but that's a cheap price to pay
to prevent bugs from making it into production.
