Downstream — Trip 3
===================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2018-09-04 09:41 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, downstream, walking
   :Short: downstream03

On the `previous trip`_ I walked from Oxford to Shillingford_ on the Thames Path, and
on this trip I was planning to walk to Pangbourne. Getting to Shillingford
requires a bit of planning as the buses aren't terribly frequent, so I got up
early (07:00 on a Saturday!) for a 08:50 bus from Reading_ to Shillingford to
continue downstream on my adventure.

.. _`previous trip`: /downstream-day-4.html

Day 5 — Shillingford to Reading
-------------------------------

.. vimeo::
   :ID: 287977089
   :Width: 800
   :Height: 450
   :Title: Downstream — Day 5

Setting off from Shillingford I quickly came upon the river Thames again,
where I was sharing the path with a (very slow) running group—I was keeping up
while walking! The first activity on the river itself came at `Benson Marina`_
where early birds where getting their canoes in the water, avoiding a range of
other motorised pleasure craft.

.. _`Benson Marina`: http://www.bensonwaterfront.co.uk/

Wallingford_ wasn't very far away, and it is a quite picturesque old market
town. The Thames Path doesn't go through the town itself, but I did catch some
of it on the bus on the way to the start of this walk, and when returning from
Shillingford_ on my previous walk.

.. _Wallingford: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wallingford,_Oxfordshire
.. _Shillingford: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shillingford

Five kilometres beyond Wallingford the Thames Path dives under the `Moulsford
Railway Bridge`_ before the path diverges from the river around a school. It
was an unpleasant section up a hill, and then along a busy and narrow road
before the path moves back towards the river, where it joins the tow path by
going through a `pub's garden`_. I hope that in the future this diversion
would not be needed.

.. _`Moulsford Railway Bridge`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moulsford_Railway_Bridge
.. _`pub's garden`: http://www.beetleandwedge.co.uk/

This walk featured six locks, from `Benson Lock`_ near the start, to `Caversham
Lock`_ near Reading_. I noticed that although the locks themselves are
not getting much larger, the accompanying weirs most definitely do. I spent a
little time at `Goring Lock`_ just before lunch.

.. _`Benson Lock`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Benson_Lock
.. _`Caversham Lock`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caversham_Lock
.. _Reading: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reading,_Berkshire
.. _`Goring Lock`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Goring_Lock

I walked into the small village of `Goring-on-Thames`_ to have lunch in a
`"locals" pub`_ where I had my first first-hand "Brexit Experience". I think
I'll leave that story for a separate post though. 

.. _`Goring-on-Thames`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Goring-on-Thames
.. _`"locals" pub`: http://www.thejohnbarleycornpub.com/

After lunch I walked back to the river, and noticed that the landscape was
very different from most of the other landscapes along the Thames so far.
Instead of it being flat, and wide open, near Goring, the landscape suddenly
turned very hilly around me. I did some googling and found that this specific
feature is called the `Goring Gap`_. Apparently, about a hundred thousand
years ago the Thames didn't flow through Oxford and London but instead went
through St. Albans and Ipswitch. During the last ice age the route got
diverted because there was a glacier in the way. The Goring Gap is the new
route that the Thames cut out through the hills.

.. _`Goring Gap`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Goring_Gap

The feature became even more apparent when the Thames Path diverted slightly
from the river and had me going right up a hill. Near the top I spoke with
some other hikers which assured me this was the only location where the Thames
Path would do that. 

My original plan was to finish at Pangbourne_, but it was still early and the
weather was nice, so I decided to continue to Reading, with its much easier
rail connections.

.. _Pangbourne: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pangbourne

At Purley the path left the Thames for a while, as due to "access rights" the
path can't follow the river closely. Annoyingly that meant up another bit of
uphill. Although it wasn't particularly a long stretch, it **was** quite
steep. When I got back to the river, a rain (drizzle) shower started, which
kept showing its head all the way back to my finish in Reading.

The last three kilometres go past the normally quiet fields of `Little John's
farm`_, but with the `Reading Festival`_ only a week away, it was a busy
business of setting up for the festival.

.. _`Little John's farm`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Little_John%27s_Farm
.. _`Reading Festival`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reading_and_Leeds_Festivals

Just before Reading I crossed under the Caversham bridge, the last bridge on
this part of the walk. Before boarding my train in Reading, I had a well
deserved pint at `The Three Guineas`_ right in front of the station. Another
34km done!

.. _`The Three Guineas`: https://www.three-guineas.co.uk/

----

Photos from my Adventure on the Thames Path are available on Flickr_, and all
videos on Vimeo_. You can also see all the photos on a map_.

.. _Flickr: https://www.flickr.com/photos/derickrethans/29562947137/in/album-72157668662396357/
.. _Vimeo: https://vimeo.com/manage/albums/5306548
.. _map: https://maps.derickrethans.nl/?l=flickr&lat=51.6&lon=-1&zoom=10#fs=DOWNSTREAM
