Downstream — Trip 8
===================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2018-11-13 09:12 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, downstream, walking
   :Short: downstream08

On the `previous trip`_ I walked from `Teddington Lock`_ to the `Golden
Jubilee Bridges`_. On this walk, I am finishing the series by going to the
`Thames Barrier`_. Getting to the start this time was easy peasy, with just a
Tube ride down to Embankment_.

.. _`previous trip`: /downstream-day-9.html
.. _`Teddington Lock`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teddington_Lock
.. _`Golden Jubilee Bridges`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hungerford_Bridge_and_Golden_Jubilee_Bridges
.. _`Thames Barrier`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thames_Barrier
.. _Embankment: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Embankment_tube_station

Day 10 — Golden Jubilee Bridges to Thames Barrier
-------------------------------------------------

.. vimeo::
   :ID: 300144845
   :Width: 800
   :Height: 450
   :Title: Downstream — Day 10

When I exited Embankment station, the rain had just stopped, and it felt very
cold. The weather forecast indicated that it would get sunny, but I was very
sceptical. I crossed the Golden Jubilee Bridges slowly, taking my time taking
some photos and video of the `London Eye`_. I considered taking a timelapse,
but realised I had done so earlier for `London in Fives`_, when the weather
was much better.

.. _`London Eye`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/London_Eye
.. _`London in Fives`: /london-in-fives.html

The moment I made it to the south bank of the Thames_, the Sun came out, and I
was happy that I had brought my sun glasses. Not only was the Sun low, it also
reflected a lot on the puddles on the ground.

.. _Thames: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thames

This part of the Thames and Thames Part are right in the middle of London, and
hence usually very busy with both commuters and tourists. Once the Sun came
out, it therefore quickly became slow going, with lots of people going around
the puddles in zigzaggy fashion. 

The tide was out, which meant that there were quite a few people out on the
river bed as well, to seek fortunes. There are still many bridges here, and
definitely many landmarks and tourist attractions.

The best known is probably the `Tower of London`_ and `Tower Bridge`_. The
Victorian Tower Bridge (1894) is significantly younger than the Norman Tower
(1078), which was built by the Normans after they invaded in 1066.
The contrast behind the older Tower and Tower Bridge and the tall buildings of
`The City`_ and `City Hall`_ is much starker still.

.. _`Tower of London`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tower_of_London
.. _`Tower Bridge`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tower_Bridge
.. _`The City`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/City_of_London
.. _`City Hall`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/City_Hall,_London

Beyond Tower Bridge, and the big yacht Kismet_, the Thames Path becomes its
quiet self again, with people going about their weekend morning business. The
walk was now a lot more pleasant as I didn't have to dodge around people all
the time. With the tide so low, many of the former docks now showed their
`muddy bottom`_, which made for some great photos.

.. _Kismet: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kismet_(yacht)
.. _`muddy bottom`: https://www.flickr.com/photos/derickrethans/44881540394/in/datetaken/

After coming around the corner at Rotherhithe, the Thames Path loops nearly
270° degrees around The City, where dark clouds and rainbows loomed over on
the North bank of the Thames, all the way to Greenwich. At Greenwich, the path
goes along the `Cutty Sark`_, a 19th century tea clipper which is now a
museum. After crossing the square at the former Royal Naval College, the
scenery turns quickly from "lovely residential area" into "industrial", which
persists nearly all the way to the `Thames Barrier`_.

Some interesting landmarks are the `Millennium Dome`_. You can now walk across
the roof, which is precisely what some people were doing when I came past. The
`Emirates Air Line`_ flew high overhead between the two banks of the Thames as
I was making my way further downstream.

After just over 300 kilometres of walking in 56 hours, while burning 25 000
calories, I then made it to the `Thames Barrier`_, London's flood defence
barrier. The barrier marks the end of the official Thames Path, although it is
possible to extend it to the river Darent_, where it then connects to the
`London LOOP`_ that I walked_ a few years ago.

.. _`Cutty Sark`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cutty_Sark
.. _`Millennium Dome`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Millennium_Dome
.. _`Emirates Air Line`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emirates_Air_Line_(cable_car)
.. _Darent: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/River_Darent
.. _`London LOOP`: https://tfl.gov.uk/modes/walking/loop-walk
.. _walked: https://derickrethans.nl/feed-theloop.xml

With the Thames Path done, it's time to look for the next adventure—I've my
eyes on `Hadrians Wall`_ ;-).

.. _`Thames Path`: https://www.nationaltrail.co.uk/thames-path
.. _`Hadrians Wall`: https://www.nationaltrail.co.uk/hadrians-wall-path

----

Photos from my Adventure on the Thames Path are available on Flickr_, and all
videos on Vimeo_. You can also see all the photos on a map_.

.. _Flickr: https://www.flickr.com/photos/derickrethans/30630762578/in/album-72157668662396357/
.. _Vimeo: https://vimeo.com/manage/albums/5306548
.. _map: https://maps.derickrethans.nl/?l=flickr&lat=51.6&lon=-1&zoom=10#fs=DOWNSTREAM
