Downstream — Trip 8
===================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2018-10-23 09:15 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, downstream
   :Short: downstream06

On the `previous trip`_ I walked from `Bourne End`_ to Staines_. Staines is
pretty easy to reach by a direct train from London Waterloo. Normally I would
walk on a Saturday, but this time I walked on a Sunday because the weather on
Saturday was rubbish, and I don't like walking in the rain.

.. _`previous trip`: /downstream-day-7.html
.. _`Bourne End`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bourne_End,_Buckinghamshire
.. _Staines: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Staines-upon-Thames

Day 8 — Staines to Teddington Lock
----------------------------------

.. vimeo::
   :ID: 296485452
   :Width: 800
   :Height: 450
   :Title: Downstream — Day 8

Luckily, the weather had all cleared up on Sunday, and I started in Staines on
another beautiful morning. It was cold when I left home in the morning, and I
had actually brought a coat. Instead of the coat, I should have brought my
sunglasses, as the Sun warmed me up quickly. The coat went not soon after I
set of walking in earnest, as I was getting sweaty.

It was quite quiet in Staines, with only few people walking their dogs,
running, and cycling. There were a lot of posh houses along the Thames on this
stretch.

After walking past a new built house called "Downstream" (coincidence?) I
arrived at a point where I could either take a detour along the `River Wey`_
Navigation, or take the ferry to the other bank of the Thames and continue my
journey there. The Nauticalia_ Ferry_ from Shepperton_ to Weybridge_ goes
once every 15 minutes, and has been in operation for about 500 years, with a
short break in the eighties. The choice was easy, and after buying my £2.50
ticket I didn't have to wait long for it to set off and ferry me, and a couple
with a dog, across.

.. _`River Wey`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/River_Wey
.. _Nauticalia: http://www.nauticalia-marine-services.co.uk/shepperton-weybridge-pedestrian-ferry/
.. _Ferry: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shepperton_to_Weybridge_Ferry
.. _Shepperton: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shepperton
.. _Weybridge: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weybridge

Just before I arrived in `Walton-on-Thames`_ I "ran into" a bunch of people
running a marathon. There was even a sign congratulating a runner with their
100th marathon. I think I'll stick to walking…

.. _`Walton-on-Thames`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walton-on-Thames

For lunch I stopped at `The Swan`_ in Walton, and sat in its garden to enjoy
my fish and chips, and a half. It was still a little early and I spend a
little too much time relaxing and sitting in the Sun.

.. _`The Swan`: http://www.swanwalton.com/

A little further the Thames passes close along a few massive reservoirs, which
feed into the water supply of Greater London. Slightly annoyingly, their
border is a massive stone wall — and I even had to cross some tank barriers.

There was another tiny ferry at Hampton, which I ignored. Instead I crossed
the Thames near `Hampton Court Palace`_, where I walked into the forecourt to
smooch and take some photos. I visited the palace with my parents a few years
ago, but it is so massive that you really need a full day to visit it all. I
certainly didn't have the time for that, and continued along the Thames Path.
Between Hampton Court Palace and Kingston, there is a quite wide path/walking
area, `The Barge Walk`_, with at the beginning lots of flower banks.

.. _`Hampton Court Palace`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hampton_Court_Palace
.. _`The Barge Walk`: http://www.viewbritain.com/england/kingston/walk-from-kingston-to-hampton-court

At `Kingston upon Thames`_ I crossed the Thames for the last time on today's
walk. I continued through `Canberry Gardens`_ and a little section along a
raised road. Just after coming back onto a footpath my way was blocked by a
massive blown-over tree. There was no way to climb over it, so I made my way
up the steep bank towards the road, move 20 meters downstream, and then slide
back onto the footpath. I think the tree recently blew over, as its brilliant
yellow leaves hadn't fallen off yet.

.. _`Kingston upon Thames`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kingston_upon_Thames
.. _`Canberry Gardens`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Canbury_Gardens

I finished my walk at `Teddington Lock`_, but not after wandering around the
lock's island for a while. There are three lock gates at Teddington_, instead
of the usual one (or two) lock gates. I also always thought that Teddington
Lock was the last (or first) lock on the Thames, but I failed to realise that
there is one further downstream at Richmond as well. However, the one at
Teddington is the last *full* lock. Beyond Teddington Lock the river Thames is
tidal, and the lock at Richmond only operates on low tide—more about that in
the next instalment.

.. _`Teddington Lock`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teddington_Lock
.. _Teddington: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teddington

After wandering around the lock, I crossed a few bridges, and made my way to
Teddington station for my train back into Waterloo. Curiously, as Teddington
is situated on the `Kingston Loop Line`_, you can catch the train to Waterloo
from either of its two platforms.

.. _`Kingston Loop Line`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kingston_loop_line

----

Photos from my Adventure on the Thames Path are available on Flickr_, and all
videos on Vimeo_. You can also see all the photos on a map_.

.. _Flickr: https://www.flickr.com/photos/derickrethans/45449628932/in/album-72157668662396357/
.. _Vimeo: https://vimeo.com/manage/albums/5306548
.. _map: https://maps.derickrethans.nl/?l=flickr&lat=51.6&lon=-1&zoom=10#fs=DOWNSTREAM
