Xdebug 2.6
==========

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2018-01-30 09:11 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, php
   :Short: xdebug-26

I have just released_ Xdebug 2.6. Xdebug 2.6 adds supports for PHP 7.2 (and
drops support for PHP 5), and adds a whole bunch of new features. This article
describes these new features.

.. _released: https://xdebug.org/#2018_01_29

Garbage Collection Statistics
-----------------------------

PHP has a built-in garbage collector, which makes it possible for PHP to free
up memory that normally would be lost due to interdependent references. I
wrote about the garbage collectors in previous articles_.

.. _articles: /collecting-garbage-cleaning-up.html

Xdebug 2.6 provides insight into the runs of PHP's built-in Garbage Collector.
There are two new functions: `xdebug_get_gc_run_count()`_, which returns how often
the Garbage Collector has run, and `xdebug_get_gc_total_collected_roots()`_,
which returns the number of variable roots that the garbage collection has
collected.

There is also a new set of settings: `xdebug.gc_stats_enable`_,
`xdebug.gc_stats_output_dir`_, and `xdebug.gc_stats_output_name`_. When the
statistics collection is enabled by setting `xdebug.gc_stats_enable`_ to
``true``, Xdebug will write a file to the configured output directory with a
name configured through ``xdebug.gc_stats_output_name``. Just like
``xdebug.trace_output_name``, the latter supports different format specifier
to add additional information to the file names.

Instead of recording the Garbage Collection runs for the whole script, you can
also selectively record this information by using `xdebug_start_gcstats()`_ and
`xdebug_stop_gcstats()`_.

.. _`xdebug_get_gc_run_count()`: https://xdebug.org/docs/garbage_collection#xdebug_get_gc_run_count
.. _`xdebug_get_gc_total_collected_roots()`: https://xdebug.org/docs/garbage_collection#xdebug_get_gc_total_collected_roots
.. _`xdebug.gc_stats_enable`: https://xdebug.org/docs/garbage_collection#gc_stats_enable
.. _`xdebug.gc_stats_output_dir`: https://xdebug.org/docs/garbage_collection#gc_stats_output_dir
.. _`xdebug.gc_stats_output_name`: https://xdebug.org/docs/garbage_collection#gc_stats_output_name
.. _`xdebug_start_gcstats()`: https://xdebug.org/docs/garbage_collection#xdebug_start_gcstats
.. _`xdebug_stop_gcstats()`: https://xdebug.org/docs/garbage_collection#xdebug_stop_gcstats

When PHP's garbage collector runs, Xdebug will write information about each
run into a file. The format of the file is::

	Garbage Collection Report
	version: 1
	creator: xdebug 2.6.0 (PHP 7.2.0)

	Collected | Efficiency% | Duration | Memory Before | Memory After | Reduction% | Function
	----------+-------------+----------+---------------+--------------+------------+---------
	    10000 |    100.00 % |  0.00 ms |       5539880 |       579880 |    79.53 % | bar
	    10000 |    100.00 % |  0.00 ms |       5540040 |       580040 |    79.53 % | Garbage::produce
	     4001 |     40.01 % |  0.00 ms |       2563048 |       578968 |    77.41 % | gc_collect_cycles

For each run, it will write how many `roots`_ are collected, and how much % of
them ends up getting freed. The duration of the Garbage Collector's run, and
the memory usage before and after are also recorded, as well as how much
reduction in memory usage this Garbage Collector run created. The last column
shows the active function or method name when the Garbage Collection algorithm
was run, or `gc_collect_cycles()`_ if it was run manually.

.. _roots: /collecting-garbage-cleaning-up.html
.. _`gc_collect_cycles()`: http://php.net/gc_collect_cycles


Profiler Enhancements
---------------------

Xdebug's profiler now also collects information about memory usage. This can
assist tracking down which parts of your application allocate a lot of memory,
and perhaps why some memory is not freed up.

Caveat: As described above in `Garbage Collection Statistics`_, PHP has a
Garbage Collector built in, which can trigger at seemingly random times.
This will distort the memory information that is recorded in the profiler's
output files. In order to get better results for memory profiling, you might
want to consider disabling_ PHP's internal garbage collector.

Additionally, Xdebug will now add a ``X-Xdebug-Profile-Filename`` HTTP header
for requests for which the profiler is active. This header holds the name of
the file that contains the profiling information for that request.

.. _disabling: http://php.net/gc-disable

Remote Debugging Improvements
-----------------------------

A new protocol feature, `extended_properties`_, has been introduced that IDEs
can opt into. When this feature is enabled, Xdebug will send variable names as
Base64_ encoded data to allow for characters that can not be represented
safely in XML.

Another new protocol feature, notifications_, has been introduced that IDEs
can opt into. When this feature is enabled, Xdebug will send any Notice,
Warning, or Error as an out-of-band notification over the debugging protocol
to the IDE which can then display this information.

A new setting, `xdebug.remote_timeout`_, has been added to configure how long
Xdebug should wait for an IDE to acknowledge an incoming debugging connection.
The default value, 200 ms, should in most cases be enough, but can be
increased if you have a particularly high latency on your network and Xdebug
fails to make a connection due to the low timeout.

A new function, `xdebug_is_debugger_active()`_, can be used whether there
currently is an IDE attached to Xdebug through the DBGp_ protocol.

Xdebug now supports debugging through Unix domain sockets. You can specify
Unix domain socket "hosts" with ``unix:///path/to/sock``, with thanks to Sara
Golemon.

Xdebug now enables ``FD_CLOEXEC`` on its debugging sockets to prevent them
from being leaked to forked processes, thanks to Chris Wright.

.. _extended_properties: https://xdebug.org/docs-dbgp.php#extended-properties
.. _Base64: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Base64
.. _notifications: https://xdebug.org/docs-dbgp.php#error-notification
.. _`xdebug.remote_timeout`: https://xdebug.org/docs/remote#remote_timeout
.. _`xdebug_is_debugger_active()`: https://xdebug.org/docs/remote#xdebug_is_debugger_active
.. _DBGp: https://xdebug.org/docs-dbgp.php


Smaller Improvements
--------------------

A new setting, `xdebug.filename_format`_, has been added to configure how
Xdebug will render filenames in HTML-like stack traces. Just like
`xdebug.trace_output_name`, it accepts a set of format specifiers that can
be used to include certain aspects of a path. Xdebug 2.6 adds the specifiers
below. With a full path of ``/var/www/vendor/mail/transport/mta.php``, the
able below lists what each specifier represents:

== =================================== ==========================================
L  Description                         Example
== =================================== ==========================================
%n File name                           ``mta.php``
%p Directory and file name             ``transport/mta.php``
%a Two directory segments and filename ``mail/transport/mta.php``
%f Full path                           ``/var/www/vendor/mail/transport/mta.php``
%s Platform specific slash             ``/`` on Linux and OSX, ``\`` on Windows
== =================================== ==========================================

Xdebug now adds the values of superglobals to the error log as well.
Previously, it would only add this information to on-screen stack traces. In
order for Xdebug to show this information, you need to configure through
`xdebug.dump_globals`_ and `xdebug.dump.*`_ which superglobal keys you want to
see at all.

The ``%s`` format specifier is now available to be used with the
`xdebug.trace_output_name`_ setting. Previously, it was only available for use
with the `xdebug.profiler_output_name`_ setting.

Trace files generated with `xdebug.collect_assignments`_ now also contain
assign-by-ref (``=&``) assignments.

.. _`xdebug.filename_format`: https://xdebug.org/docs/stack_trace#filename_format
.. _`xdebug.trace_output_name`: https://xdebug.org/docs/execution_trace#trace_output_name
.. _`xdebug.dump_globals`: https://xdebug.org/docs/stack_trace#dump_globals
.. _`xdebug.dump.*`: https://xdebug.org/docs/stack_trace#dump.*
.. _`xdebug.profiler_output_name`: https://xdebug.org/docs/profiler#profiler_output_name
.. _`xdebug.collect_assignments`: https://xdebug.org/docs/execution_trace#collect_assignments

Behavioural Changes
-------------------

Instead of throwing a fatal error when an infinite recursion
(`xdebug.max_nesting_level`_) is detected, Xdebug now throws an Error_
exception instead.

.. _`xdebug.max_nesting_level`: https://xdebug.org/docs/basic#max_nesting_level
.. _Error: http://php.net/manual/en/class.error.php

Conclusion
----------

As you can see, Xdebug 2.6 packs a whole bunch of new features and has been
the cumulation of a little over a year's work. Although the majority of the work
was done by myself, there were notable contributions by Arnaud Gendre,
Benjamin Eberlei, Chris Wright, Emir Beganović, Frode E. Moe, Kalle Sommer
Nielsen, Nikita Popov, Sara Golemon, Remi Collet, and Zaid Al Khishman.

During the year I have also launched my Patreon_ page, in case, you want to
contribute for further development of Xdebug. Alternatively, you might want to
look at my `Amazon wishlist`_ to say thank you.

.. _Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/derickr
.. _`Amazon wishlist`: http://www.amazon.co.uk/registry/wishlist/SLCB276UZU8B
