Downstream — Trip 4
===================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2018-09-25 09:08 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, downstream
   :Short: downstream04

On the `previous trip`_ I walked from Shillingford_ to Reading_ on the Thames
Path, and on this trip I was planning to walk to Marlow. For once, getting to
the start was easy by a single and fast train ride into Reading_.

.. _`previous trip`: /downstream-day-5.html
.. _Shillingford: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shillingford
.. _Reading: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reading,_Berkshire

Day 6 — Reading to Bourne End
-----------------------------

.. vimeo::
   :ID: 291354956
   :Width: 599
   :Height: 337
   :Title: Downstream — Day 6

With the `Reading Festival`_ over, there was little to see of hoardings and
temporary holding pits when I started my walk towards Marlow. The first
interesting thing along the path is `Caversham Lock`_, which quite busy on the
slightly hazy morning. 

.. _`Reading Festival`: https://www.readingfestival.com/
.. _`Caversham Lock`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caversham_Lock

A little further along, I crossed, by means of a foot bridge, the `River
Kennet`_. Through the `Kennet and Avon Canal`_, it connects the Thames at
Reading with the `River Avon`_ at `Bristol`_, with the canal section between
Bath_ and Newbury_. When recording the video section on this, I messed up so
had to re-record the narration.

.. _`River Kennet`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/River_Kennet
.. _`Kennet and Avon Canal`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kennet_and_Avon_Canal
.. _`River Avon`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/River_Avon,_Bristol
.. _Bristol: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bristol
.. _Bath: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bath,_Somerset
.. _Newbury: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Newbury,_Berkshire

Continuing along the Thames Path I noticed that there are a significant number of
posh schools located along this stretch of the river, which sometimes means
you need to make a little detour. Another of these detours away from the river
is at Shiplake_, where the Thames Path brings you straight to the quaint
village, with its `Phone Box Book Exchange`_, and its lovely railway station.

.. _Shiplake: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shiplake
.. _`Phone Box Book Exchange`: http://shiplakevillages.com/index.php?pid=232

My plan was to have lunch at Henley_, at one of the pubs along the river. Just
when I got to Henley however it started to rain, and all the pubs where
absolutely packed, with lots of people wearing colourful clothes. I had no
idea what was going on, and I was hungry, so I found a little cafe, `Cafe
Copia`_ near the town hall to have lunch, and wait for the rain to pass.

.. _`Henley`: 
.. _`Cafe Copia`: https://www.cafecopia.co.uk/

After lunch I crossed the bridge and found the Thames Path clogged with these
same people in colourful clothes. Due to the busyness it was quite slow going
for a while, until I got to a massive festival site just North of Remenham.
There was a reason for the funny dress sense after all, as this site was
hosting the `Rewind Festival`_, a big 80s festival.

.. _`Rewind Festival`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rewind_Festival#Rewind_South_2

After half an hour, the festival site was no longer visible and audible and
the tranquillity of the walk returned, and I could listen to the podcast
series Caliphate_ from the New York Times, once again, in the middle of the
private deer park of `Culham Court`_.

.. _Caliphate: https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/podcasts/caliphate-isis-rukmini-callimachi.html
.. _`Culham Court`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Culham_Court,_Berkshire

At Hurley_ it became busy along the Thames again as they were having their
annual Regatta_. As I was quite early, there was no racing going on yet, but
as often with these river-side festivals they make you go around them, away
from the Thames Path.

.. _Hurley: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hurley,_Berkshire
.. _Regatta: https://www.hurleyregatta.co.uk/

Near Bisham, you can spot the former grounds of `Bisham Abbey`_ across the
river. Now it is sports centre, but when I passed by there was a wedding
reception in progress.

.. _`Bisham Abbey`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bisham_Abbey

As I was now approaching Marlow, I asked one of my coworkers, who is local,
for a good recommendation for a post-walk beer. He came back with saying that
Marlow is primarily food-orientated, and proceeded to recommend a pub in
Bourne End, another three and a half miles walking. I decided to do that, as
it was quite reasonably early, and I was going to miss the train at Marlow
anyway. Just past the town, the Thames Path got diverted again, as repaving
work was being done on a section — yay for shiny new paths!

The extra miles to `Bourne End`_ where worth it in the end as I settled for a
half at `KEG Craft Beer`_ for a lovely sour. I also picked up a `train beer`_
for my trip back into London.

.. _`Bourne End`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bourne_End,_Buckinghamshire
.. _`KEG Craft Beer`: https://untappd.com/v/keg/5769376
.. _`train beer`: https://untappd.com/user/derickr/checkin/640374194

----

Photos from my Adventure on the Thames Path are available on Flickr_, and all
videos on Vimeo_. You can also see all the photos on a map_.

.. _Flickr: https://www.flickr.com/photos/derickrethans/44500461361/in/album-72157668662396357/
.. _Vimeo: https://vimeo.com/manage/albums/5306548
.. _map: https://maps.derickrethans.nl/?l=flickr&lat=51.6&lon=-1&zoom=10#fs=DOWNSTREAM
