Downstream — Trip 7
===================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2018-10-30 09:17 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, downstream
   :Short: downstream07

On the `previous trip`_ I walked from to Staines_ to `Teddington Lock`_.
The start of the walk was easy to reach by a direct train from Waterloo, but
it does involve a 1 km walk in Teddington. But please do make sure you get out
at the right side of the station, otherwise that walk is 2 km ☺.

.. _`previous trip`: /downstream-day-9.html
.. _Staines: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Staines-upon-Thames
.. _`Teddington Lock`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teddington_Lock

Day 9 — Teddington Lock to the Golden Jubilee Bridges
-----------------------------------------------------

.. vimeo::
   :ID: 292769954
   :Width: 800
   :Height: 450
   :Title: Downstream — Day 9

I didn't spend a lot of time at `Teddington Lock`_, as I had done so a week
earlier. I did notice a few signs saying "Caution! Tidal" as a reminder that
the Thames downstream from Teddington Lock is tidal. At the moment it was low
tide, although at Teddington that is still a little hard to see due to the
presence of Richmond Lock. At Teddington Lock you can chose whether the follow
the North or South Bank to the Thames Barrier. As I know that the North Bank's
path has a lot of barriers and diversions, especially further East in the
City_, I chose to walk the Thames Path along the South Bank.

On most of today's walk I was accompanied with rowers on the Thames—for
practice, teaching, and races. There must be a rowing club every other
kilometre or so. On the way into Richmond the `Petersham Hotel`_ looming above
the town.

.. _City: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/City_of_London
.. _`Petersham Hotel`: https://petershamhotel.co.uk/

Just beyond Richmond the Thames path passes along the `Old Deer Park`_,
where I encountered a `Meridian Line`_. Before Greenwich_ became the Prime
Meridian in 1884, the line at Richmond, which passes through the `King's
Observatory`_ fulfilled this role for a few centuries.

.. _`Old Deer Park`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Old_Deer_Park
.. _`Meridian Line`: https://andrewgough.co.uk/articles_richmond/
.. _Greenwich: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greenwich
.. _`King's Observatory`: https://www.kingsobservatory.co.uk/

Not far from the first Meridian Line is `Richmond Lock and Footbridge`_. This is the
last lock on the Thames, but it is not a full lock. The lock is accompanied by
sluice gates which are open when the tide is at it highest—around two hours on
either side of the high tide mark. During that time boats can bypass the lock
gates. When the sluice gates are closed, boats have to use the lock to make
their way downstream or upstream. When I walked by, the Thames was nearly at
its lowest point, and hence, the sluice gates were closed. I didn't see any
boats wanting to go through the lock either though.

.. _`Richmond Lock and Footbridge`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richmond_Lock_and_Footbridge

Beyond the Old Deer Park, the Thames Path passes between the Thames and Kew
Gardens. You can unfortunately not see much of it, due the
dense vegetation and a wall. You can only really get a glimpse of `Kew
Palace`_. `Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew`_, as the gardens are also called, is
well worth visiting—especially in Spring.

.. _`Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Royal_Botanic_Gardens,_Kew
.. _`Kew Palace`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kew_Palace

Now that I passed the last lock at Richmond, there are no further more locks
all the way to the North Sea, however, there are plenty of bridges that cross
the Thames, both for car, and rail and tube traffic. It became very clear that
it was low tide, as there were vast areas of the bottom visible, with plenty
of people trying to hunt for treasures.

I had lunch in Putney, at `The Duke's Head`_, where I also had a local brew_
from nearby Wimbledon brewery. I did pass by the `Stag Brewery`_ as well, but
that only makes Budweiser, or so their sign says.

.. _`The Duke's Head`: https://www.dukesheadputney.com/
.. _brew: https://untappd.com/user/derickr/checkin/663129800
.. _`Stag Brewery`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mortlake#Stag_Brewery_or_Mortlake_Brewery

After lunch the small deviations from the Thames Part started, as there is a
lot of new building works going on in Wandsworth and Battersea. The path
wasn't always signed very well, or the signs were outdated due to either new
developments, or completed ones with the redirections still in place. Only at
the former `Battersea Power Station`_ the deviation was a little annoying, as
it included going along a busy road.

.. _`Battersea Power Station`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battersea_Power_Station

After going around the `SIS building`_, I was back on familiar territory. I
have walked along the Thames East from `Lambeth Bridge`_ to `Tower Bridge`_
many times. This is also the section that becomes really busy on nice warm
autumn days, so my progress was slowed down a little.

.. _`SIS building`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SIS_Building
.. _`Lambeth Bridge`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lambeth_Bridge
.. _`Tower Bridge`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tower_Bridge

A few more bridges later, the Sun started to come closer to setting. I always
like this moment in a day, as the light becomes extra yellow, which makes in
my opinion for much better photos. You also get to catch the Sun's rays on
buildings, such as `Lambeth Palace`_.

.. _`Lambeth Palace`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lambeth_Palace

Across the river from Lambeth Palace is the `Palace of Westminster`_, where
the UK's parliament sits. One of the towers is the `Elizabeth Tower`_, which
also hosts the `Big Ben`_ bell. The latter is currently out of action and
wrapped in scaffolding, as the bell and its tower are being refurbished.

.. _`Palace of Westminster`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Palace_of_Westminster
.. _`Elizabeth Tower`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_Ben
.. _`Big Ben`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_Ben

I finished my walk just beyond the `London Eye`_ at the `Golden Jubilee
Bridges`_. From there on it was a short walk to Waterloo station where I took
the tube home. It took however nearly an hour from the bridge to the station,
but that was only because I sat down at the `Waterloo Tap`_ for a restorative
beverage_.

.. _`London Eye`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/London_Eye
.. _`Golden Jubilee Bridges`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hungerford_Bridge_and_Golden_Jubilee_Bridges
.. _`Waterloo Tap`: https://www.waterlootap.com/
.. _beverage: https://untappd.com/user/derickr/checkin/663225909

Only one more walk to go!

----

Photos from my Adventure on the Thames Path are available on Flickr_, and all
videos on Vimeo_. You can also see all the photos on a map_.

.. _Flickr: https://www.flickr.com/photos/derickrethans/30630762578/in/album-72157668662396357/
.. _Vimeo: https://vimeo.com/manage/albums/5306548
.. _map: https://maps.derickrethans.nl/?l=flickr&lat=51.6&lon=-1&zoom=10#fs=DOWNSTREAM
