Xdebug Update: July 2019
=========================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2019-08-06 09:25 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, php, xdebug
   :Short: xdebug-19jul

This is another of the monthly update reports in which I explain what happened
with Xdebug development in this past month. It will be published on the first
Tuesday after the 5th of each month. Patreon_ supporters will get it earlier,
on the first of each month. You can become a patron here_ to support my work
on Xdebug. More supporters, means that I can dedicate more of my time to
improving Xdebug.

.. _Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/derickr
.. _here: https://www.patreon.com/bePatron?u=7864328

In July, I worked on Xdebug for about 20 hours, still a little bit less than
normal due to holidays. I worked on the following things:

2.8.0beta1 Release
-------------------

On July 25th, the same day that PHP 7.4.0beta1 was released, I made Xdebug's
`2.8.0beta1 release <https://xdebug.org/#2019_07_25>`_. PHP 7.4 had changed
some internal structures that required changes in Xdebug. You have to use the
Xdebug 2.8.0beta1 release with PHP 7.4.0beta1.

This first **beta** release mainly makes Xdebug compatible again with PHP, but
also addresses a bunch of issues that were reported, including a fix for Code
Coverage collections, and a few issues related to obtaining the correct PID
(Process Identifier) number for debugging. It also addresses an issue with
NULL bytes and the `DBGp <https://xdebug.org/docs-dbgp.php>`_ protocol.

NULL bytes in the DBGp protocol
-------------------------------

In PHP, it is possible to have NULL bytes in variable, key, and property names
by using ``\0``, such as in::

	<?php
	$name = "with_\0_null_char";
	$$name = 42;
	?>

The DBGp protocol represents variable names through the ``name`` attribute of
the ``property`` element in its XML format::

	<property name="$name" fullname="$name" type="string" size="16" encoding="base64">
		<![CDATA[d2l0aF8AX251bGxfY2hhcg==]]>
	</property>

However, if a name has a NULL character, Xdebug would generate the following
XML::

	<property name="$with_&#0;_null_char" fullname="$with_&#0;_null_char" type="int">
		<![CDATA[42]]>
	</property>

The problem is however, that XML does not allow for NULL bytes in attribute
names. The above XML is therefore not well-formed. When the DBGp protocol was
designed many many years ago, this issue was not thought off, and hence, the
DBGp protocol could not represent these NULL bytes in variable, key, and
property names. If you look at the first XML snippet (with ``name="$name"``),
then you can see that the DBGp protocol **does** handle this for the values.
In this case, it added the ``encoding="base64"`` attribute, and encoded the
string ``"with_\0_null_char"`` as ``d2l0aF8AX251bGxfY2hhcg==``.

A while ago, for `Xdebug 2.6
<https://xdebug.org/updates.php#x_2_6_0alpha1>`_, I addressed this problem by
an update to the DBGp protocol to include *extended properties*. When the IDE
enables this `feature
<https://xdebug.org/docs-dbgp.php#properties-variables-and-values>`_, Xdebug
will then communicate names and values through a `base64` encoded value in a
sub-element, such as::

	<property type="string" size="16">
		<name encoding="base64"><![CDATA[JG5hbWU=]]></name>
		<fullname encoding="base64"><![CDATA[JG5hbWU=]]></fullname>
		<value encoding="base64"><![CDATA[d2l0aF8AX251bGxfY2hhcg==]]></value>
	</property>

What I had failed to see is that it also possible that **class names** can
have NULL characters in their name—when you use anonymous classes::

	<?php
	$a = new class { };
	var_dump( $a );
	?>

This would still be communicated as::

	<property name="$a" fullname="$a" type="object"
		classname="class@anonymous&#0;/home/derick/dev/php/xdebug-xdebug/tests/bug01682.inc0x7efd7ab63018"
		children="0" numchildren="0" page="0" pagesize="32">
	</property>

The fix for `issue #1682 <https://bugs.xdebug.org/1682>`_ fixes this, by
checking whether either of name, value, or class name has an XML incompatible
character. If that is the case, and the `extended_properties`` feature has
been enabled by the IDE through the protocol, then Xdebug will communicate
this value in the new format::

	<property type="object" children="0" numchildren="0" page="0" pagesize="32">
		<name encoding="base64"><![CDATA[JGE=]]></name>
		<fullname encoding="base64"><![CDATA[JGE=]]></fullname>
		<classname encoding="base64"><![CDATA[Y2xhc3NAYW5vbnltb3VzAC9ob21lL2Rlcmljay9kZXYvcGhwL3hkZWJ1Zy14ZGVidWcvdGVzdHMvYnVnMDE2ODIuaW5jMHg3ZjJjYjUxMTcwMTg=]]></classname>
	</property>

Towards beta2
-------------

With the release of 2.8.0beta1 out of the way, I am now working on a series of
`bug fixes <https://bugs.xdebug.org/roadmap_page.php?version_id=65>`_. I
expect a beta2 or RC1 (Release Candidate) release when PHP 7.4 enters the
Release Candidate phase as well.

Since beta1, I have worked on an issue with tracing and profiling: A
shutdown handler, or autoprepend/autoappend file, would cause the creation of
multiple files in some cases. 

I have also updated the `xdebug.coverage_enable=0
<https://xdebug.org/docs/all_settings#coverage_enable>`_ feature to make sure
that no work towards Code Coverage information gathering is done by Xdebug,
when this setting is set to ``0``. This should speed up your application, but
Code Coverage will not work. Xdebug 3's modes will eventually address this in
a more elegant way.

Podcast
-------

I have been continuing with the `PHP Internals News
<https://phpinternals.news>`_ podcast. In this weekly podcast, I discuss in
15-30 minutes, proposed new features to the PHP language with fellow PHP
internals developers. It is available on Spotify_ and iTunes_, and through an
`RSS Feed`_. Let me know if you are a listener!

.. _Spotify: https://open.spotify.com/show/1Qcd282SDWGF3FSVuG6kuB
.. _iTunes: https://itunes.apple.com/gb/podcast/php-internals-news/id1455782198?mt=2
.. _`RSS Feed`: https://phpinternals.news/feed.rss
