Xdebug Update: August 2019
==========================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2019-09-10 09:25 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, php, xdebug
   :Short: xdebug-19aug

This is another of the monthly update reports in which I explain what happened
with Xdebug development in this past month. It will be published on the first
Tuesday after the 5th of each month. Patreon_ supporters will get it earlier,
on the first of each month. You can become a patron here_ to support my work
on Xdebug. More supporters, means that I can dedicate more of my time to
improving Xdebug.

.. _Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/derickr
.. _here: https://www.patreon.com/bePatron?u=7864328

In August, I worked on the following things:

2.8.0beta2 Release
-------------------

This second beta release addresses a lot of issues that were still outstanding
for the 2.8 release. This included simple issues like `Wrong name displayed
for Recoverable fatal errors <https://bugs.xdebug.org/1613>`_ and `Code Coverage
misses fluent interface function call <https://bugs.xdebug.org/1691>`_. The
trickiest bug was related to the DBGp debugging protocol.

I test Xdebug's implementation of the DBGp protocol by having a file with the
PHP script to debug and then a `phpt <http://qa.php.net/write-test.php>`_ test
that has a set of commands to run against that file. As an example, for one of
the fixed bugs, the script looks like::

	<?php
	function breakpoint1()
	{
		echo base64_encode("testing"), "\n";
		strlen();
	}

	breakpoint1();
	?>

And the ``phpt`` test looks like::

	<?php
	require 'dbgp/dbgpclient.php';
	$filename = realpath( dirname(__FILE__) . '/bug01388-01.inc' );

	$commands = array(
		'feature_get -n resolved_breakpoints',
		"breakpoint_set -t line -f file://{$filename} -n 4",
		'breakpoint_list',
		'feature_set -n resolved_breakpoints -v 1',
		'feature_get -n resolved_breakpoints',
		'breakpoint_list',
		"breakpoint_set -t line -f file://{$filename} -n 4",
		'breakpoint_list',
		'detach',
	);

	dbgpRunFile( $filename, $commands );
	?>

The third command sets a breakpoint on line 4 (the ``echo`` statement) and
then does various things related to breakpoint resolving. The "remote log" that is
generated by the test is then compared (after some regexp replacements) with
the expected output.

Because I run the script in a new process, I have some methods in place to
also collect the output of the script (both ``stdout`` and ``stderr``). I
don't usually have ``stderr`` on, as there are a few false positives, but when
I tested with this in the past, I noticed that one test caused a segmentation
fault.

After a few hours of trying to find out the problem, I noticed that this would
only happen in the ``init`` state (when the debugger first connects to the
IDE, and when the IDE can enable features and send breakpoints). If in this
``init`` state the IDE would send the ``detach`` command, Xdebug would crash.
This ``detach`` command can be used by an IDE to disengage the debugger, with
the script continuing to run afterwards.

Due to an implementation bug related to whether the debugger connection was
active or not, a ``detach`` in the ``init`` state would mark the connection
active, while the connection was already cleaned up before hand. This caused
Xdebug to access memory, that was already freed (which is a bad thing to do).
The `fix <https://github.com/xdebug/xdebug/commit/b8526c7614b255d4455efbc2e6ed4dfa9eb9bc35#diff-4a536a3fab5834edfcc102a6aaf8ae2aL456>`_
was luckily quite simple.

IANA Port Assignment
--------------------

As a result of a twitter conversation that I had, I tried applying for an
"assigned port" for the DBGp protocol. As some of you might be aware, Xdebug
shares the same default port (9000) as PHP-FPM. This has caused confusion in
the past, so I was hoping to avoid future problems with Xdebug 3 by asking
IANA to assign me one. However, IANA declined by application by somewhat vague
comments about "security" and not needing one because DBGp runs on a LAN.

As to the security aspect, they require authentication and encryption for *new*
protocols, and of course DBGp isn't new. I would like to add an encryption
layer to DBGp, but I can't require this right away, as that would mean no IDE
can talk DBGp any more. Requiring authentication (i.e., username and password)
would also prevent interoperability with current IDE implementations.

They also stipulated that I didn't need an assigned port due to the fact that
most of the traffic runs on LANs only, and that there are other ways of
negotiating a suitable port. All in all, neither requirement makes the use of
Xdebug and DBGp easier.

Interestingly enough, they did write that it was "inappropriate" to use any
currently assigned port—TCP/9000 is also used for ``cslistener``. However, if
they don't want to assign DBGp a port, than what am I supposed to do?

Towards release candidate 1
---------------------------

There is still one bug that I want to address for the first
release candidate, and that is a long outstanding bug where Xdebug accesses
variables passed into a function after PHP has already freed this information.
I have created haphazard solutions in the past, but they never fully addressed
the problem. They are hard to reproduce cases, and therefore I was happy to
see a submitted `pull request <https://github.com/xdebug/xdebug/pull/474>`_
with test cases, and even a patch. The idea behind the patch is good, but only
for one case, where the arguments are an object. The problem isn't only
related to objects, and henceforth needs a more general solution. Nikita was
happy to provide a suggested fix, which I will now have to put into practice.

Funding Xdebug
--------------

At the end of the month I started a thread on Twitter (now deleted) with the
cheeky suggestion that I am considering making Xdebug non-free for commercial
use. This is not something I would likely do, and instead would prefer to be
funded through Patreon and commercial donations. The replies on the thread
gave me a couple of ideas to make this more likely to work.

For companies it can often be complicated to use things like Patreon,
as it's difficult for accounting or "selling it to management". I am therefore
going to make it possible for companies to "buy a license", with a yearly
invoice.

Another suggestion was to set up funding goals, which indicate how much time I
can dedicate to working on Xdebug, with various levels of improvements. I have
now done so on Patreon, with the following goals:

- **Maintain:** I can dedicate enough time to Xdebug to continue supporting it
  in its current form, and making sure there is a new Xdebug version to
  complement new PHP versions. This might not necessarily include fixing all
  the more complicated bugs *(Currently at 69%)*.
- **Feature:** Not only will I have enough time to maintain Xdebug with newer
  PHP versions, but I will also be able to work on some requested features,
  and dive deeper into more complicated bugs *(Currently at 34%)*.
- **Re-architect and performance:** Besides maintenance and new features, I
  can now dedicate time to rewrite the parts of Xdebug that particularly slow,
  and re-architect it to be more much maintainable. The main reason for
  wanting to do that is performance, performance, and performance *(Currently
  at 17%)*.

I will likely add these goals to the `website <https://xdebug.org>`_ as well,
where I can also include company contributions. Let's see if we can get all of
them to 100% together!

In order to make it easier to convince people to sign up, I am planning on
making live coding sessions available to Patreon backers (of some higher
levels), as well as providing commercial support for setting up Xdebug. These
plans need a little bit more thought, so expect to hear from me about these in
the near future.

Podcast
-------

I have been continuing with the `PHP Internals News
<https://phpinternals.news>`_ podcast. In this weekly podcast, I discuss in
15-30 minutes, proposed new features to the PHP language with fellow PHP
internals developers. It is available on Spotify_ and iTunes_, and through an
`RSS Feed`_. Let me know if you are a listener!

.. _Spotify: https://open.spotify.com/show/1Qcd282SDWGF3FSVuG6kuB
.. _iTunes: https://itunes.apple.com/gb/podcast/php-internals-news/id1455782198?mt=2
.. _`RSS Feed`: https://phpinternals.news/feed.rss
