Xdebug Update: June 2019
=========================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2019-07-09 09:34 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, php, xdebug
   :Short: xdebug-19jun

This is another of the monthly update reports in which I explain what happened
with Xdebug development in this past month. It will be published on the first
Tuesday after the 5th of each month. Patreon_ supporters will get it earlier,
on the first of each month. You can become a patron here_ to support my work
on Xdebug. More supporters, means that I can dedicate more of my time to
improving Xdebug.

.. _Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/derickr
.. _here: https://www.patreon.com/bePatron?u=7864328

In June, I worked on Xdebug for 20 hours, a little bit less than normal as I
spend some time on holidays and conferences. I worked on the following things:

2.8.0alpha1 Release
-------------------

I made the `2.8.0alpha1 release <https://xdebug.org/#2019_06_28>`_
just when the month was running out.

This **alpha** release adds preliminary support for PHP 7.4, but also
addresses some other issues. It also includes a major overhaul on
how I do ``SKIPIF`` sections in the ``phpt`` tests that I used to test Xdebug.

Instead of having complicated sections such as::

	<?php if (!version_compare(phpversion(), "7.0.12", '>')) echo "skip > PHP 7.0.12, < PHP 7.1 needed\n"; ?>
	<?php if (!version_compare(phpversion(), "7.1", '<')) echo "skip > PHP 7.0.12, < PHP 7.1 needed\n"; ?>
	<?php if (!extension_loaded('zend opcache')) echo "skip opcache required\n"; ?>

I now have::

	check_reqs('PHP > 7.0.12,< 7.1; opcache');

This makes it a lot easier to maintain Xdebug's tests among multiple PHP
versions. After all, I still support PHP versions since PHP 7.0—although I am
considering dropping support for PHP 7.0 and only support PHP 7.1 and up.

This release also features the Resolving Breakpoints feature, which the folks
at Jetbrains_ have sponsored. After their last review, I made a few
modifications to run the resolver for newly set breakpoints as well. I am
intending to create a separate blog post on what this new `feature
<https://bugs.xdebug.org/1388>`_ solves.

I also found an already existing bug with `return breakpoints`_, where a
return breakpoint would not cause a break immediately. A fix for this is also
in the alpha1 release.

.. _`return breakpoints`: https://bugs.xdebug.org/1660
.. _JetBrains: https://www.jetbrains.com/

32-bit Support
--------------

I am considering to stop creating Windows binaries for 32-bit installations of
PHP. It duplicates the amount of time that it takes to create Windows
binaries, slowing down, testing on CI, and the creation of releases as it
takes ~2 hours to build them all on AppVeyor_.

.. _AppVeyor: https://ci.appveyor.com/project/derickr/xdebug/builds/25614967

The reasoning behind this is that very few people still use 32-bit Windows
installations, and I am not sure it's still worth spending time on it. I ran a
little `Twitter poll <https://twitter.com/Xdebug/status/1140626697328517121>`_ about this.

Although even if I would drop 32-bit binary creations, users that still need
these binaries can get them on the PECL website. PECL builds extensions for
all the supported PHP versions, such as here for Xdebug 2.8.0alpha1
`<https://pecl.php.net/package/xdebug/2.8.0alpha1/windows>`_ 

Podcast
-------

I have been continuing with the `PHP Internals News
<https://phpinternals.news>`_ podcast. In this weekly podcast, I discuss in
15-30 minutes, proposed new features to the PHP language with fellow PHP
internals developers. It is available on Spotify_ and iTunes_, and through an
`RSS Feed`_. Let me know if you are a listener!

.. _Spotify: https://open.spotify.com/show/1Qcd282SDWGF3FSVuG6kuB
.. _iTunes: https://itunes.apple.com/gb/podcast/php-internals-news/id1455782198?mt=2
.. _`RSS Feed`: https://phpinternals.news/feed.rss
