Xdebug Update: July 2021
========================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2021-08-10 09:03 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, php, xdebug
   :Short: xdebug-21jul

In this monthly update I explain what happened with Xdebug development
in this past month. These will be published on the first Tuesday after the 5th
of each month.

`Patreon <https://www.patreon.com/derickr>`_ and `GitHub
<https://github.com/sponsors/derickr/>`_ supporters will get it earlier,
around the first of each month.

You can `become a patron <https://www.patreon.com/bePatron?u=7864328>`_ or
support me through `GitHub Sponsors <https://github.com/sponsors/derickr>`_.
I am currently 57% towards my $2,000 per month goal.
If you are leading a team or company, then it is also possible to support
Xdebug through `a subscription <https://xdebug.org/support>`_.

In July, I worked on Xdebug for about 50 hours, with funding being
around 25 hours, which is only **half**.

PHP 8.1 Support
---------------

Now PHP 8.1's feature freeze has happened, I am working on integrating the
missing features into Xdebug. Last month I added support for PHP 8.1's
`Enum <https://wiki.php.net/rfc/enumerations>`_ type, but this required a
little bit more work as it was emitting the same XML attribute more than once
in some occasions. This came to the surface after adding support for `Readonly
Properties <https://wiki.php.net/rfc/readonly_properties_v2>`_, another new feature in PHP 8.1.

IDEs have so far not yet been updated to make use of these new "facets" that
Xdebug's debugger emits. PhpStorm's tracker has an issue for `readonly
<https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/WI-61669>`_ as well as `enums
<https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/WI-60860>`_. The VS Code plugin's
tracker has issues for `readonly
<https://github.com/xdebug/vscode-php-debug/issues/627>`_ and `enums
<https://github.com/xdebug/vscode-php-debug/issues/628>`_ as well.

I also had to make some more tweaks with regard to PHP 8.1's changes to
internals, most notably related to static properties. 

Xdebug 3.1
----------

Beyond making sure that Xdebug 3.1 works will with PHP 8.1, and continues to
work with PHP 7.2 through 8.0, I have been adding some new features too.

Xdebug 3.1 will no longer set either a timeout, or use *Strict* cookies to
manage its debugging session through HTTP. Instead, it now uses a *Lax* and
relies on the browser closing to clean out the cookie.

I have added a new function, ``xdebug_connect_to_client()``. This function can
be used to ask Xdebug to try to connect to a debugging client during a
request. Normally, it only tries this at the start of a request. In some
cases, with long running processes that run many worker jobs, it is sometimes
useful to be able to open a debugging client at a later point, and then allow
for Xdebug to try to connect to this debugging client. It will now do so if
you call the ``xdebug_connect_to_client()`` function. This feature was
requested by `Tideways <https://tideways.com/>`_, a `business supporter
<https://xdebug.org/support>`_ of Xdebug.

Now that PHP 8.1 has introduced a `First Class Callable Syntax
<https://wiki.php.net/rfc/first_class_callable_syntax>`_, I've updated Xdebug
tracer and variable display routines to add information about which
function/method a closure encapsulate as well. This information was previously
missing. You can learn more about this PHP feature in the PHP Internals News
episode `First Class Callable Syntax <https://phpinternals.news/92>`_.


Xdebug Cloud
------------

To help with funding my work on Xdebug, I have a paid-for-service, called
Xdebug Cloud.

Xdebug Cloud is the *Proxy As A Service* platform to allow for debugging in
more scenarios, where it is hard, or impossible, to have Xdebug make a
connection to the IDE. It is continuing to operate as Beta release.

Packages start at £49/month, and revenue will be used to further the
development of Xdebug.

If you want to be kept up to date with Xdebug Cloud, please sign up to the
`mailinglist <https://xdebug.cloud/newsletter>`_, which I will use to send out
an update not more than once a month.

Xdebug Videos
-------------

I have published two more videos on how to use Xdebug on my `YouTube channel
<https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLg9Kjjye-m1g_eXpdaifUqLqALLqZqKd4>`_.

These are part of a series to explain how to use Xdebug's profiling:

- `Xdebug 3 Profiling: 1. Setting Up
  <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ttQgLBSpVvc>`_, where I show how to
  configure Xdebug for profiling.
- `Xdebug 3 Profiling: 2. KCacheGrind tour
  <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-0HpCblt3A>`_, where I go over
  KCacheGrind's (and QCacheGrind's) features.

In an upcoming video I will use a "real life" application to show how to use
the profiler to find bottlenecks.

If you would like to see a 5 to 10 minute long video on another specific
topic, feel free to request them through this `Google Form
<https://forms.gle/ugjGbxs6ZhiTyvCSA>`_.

Business Supporter Scheme and Funding
-------------------------------------

In July, no new supporters signed up.

If you, or your company, would also like to support Xdebug, head over to the
`support <https://xdebug.org/support>`_ page!

Besides business support, I also maintain a `Patreon
<https://www.patreon.com/derickr>`_ page and a profile on `GitHub sponsors
<https://github.com/sponsors/derickr>`_.
