Xdebug Update: May 2021
=======================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2021-06-08 08:56 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, php, xdebug
   :Short: xdebug-21may

Another monthly update where I explain what happened with Xdebug development
in this past month. These will be published on the first Tuesday after the 5th
of each month.

`Patreon <https://www.patreon.com/derickr>`_ and `GitHub
<https://github.com/sponsors/derickr/>`_ supporters will get it earlier,
around the first of each month.

You can `become a patron <https://www.patreon.com/bePatron?u=7864328>`_ or
support me through `GitHub Sponsors <https://github.com/sponsors/derickr>`_.
I am currently 51% towards my $2,000 per month goal.
If you are leading a team or company, then it is also possible to support
Xdebug through `a subscription <https://xdebug.org/support>`_.

In May, I worked on Xdebug for about 25 hours, with funding being
around 30 hours.

Xdebug 3.1
----------

I'm continuing to track PHP 8.1's development and have now added support for
`Fibers <https://wiki.php.net/rfc/fibers>`_ in the debugger. I have not spend
time adding support for the new `Enum
<https://wiki.php.net/rfc/enumerations>`_ yet, but that should happen soon.
I suspect that more work to make Xdebug PHP 8.1 compatible is going to be
required in the future too.

After meeting with a developer of the `PHP Debug Adapter for Visual Studio
Code <https://github.com/xdebug/vscode-php-debug>`_, I've started to work on
some of the things that he raised. For example, there is now a new protocol
feature that makes Xdebug include information about the breakpoint that was
hit.

He also raised a bug where Xdebug `truncates log messages
<https://bugs.xdebug.org/1978>`_ and with `UNC paths
<https://bugs.xdebug.org/1964>`_. I have fixed the first one, but the second
one requires more investigation and a "clever solution".

Xdebug Videos
-------------

I have published another videos on how to use Xdebug on my `YouTube channel
<https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLg9Kjjye-m1g_eXpdaifUqLqALLqZqKd4>`_.

This one deals about `Debugging the Symfony Demo App in Docker with VS Code
<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZIGdBSD6zvU>`_.

I have been working on another animated video where I explain how to activate
Xdebug's features with triggers and settings. This should come out in the next
few weeks.

If you would like to see a 5 to 10 minute long video on another specific
topic, feel free to email me at derick@xdebug.org.

Xdebug Cloud
------------

`Xdebug Cloud <https://xdebug.cloud>`_ is continuing to operate as Beta
release, and provides an easy way to debug your PHP applications with Xdebug,
without having to deal with complexities with regards to networking.

Packages start at £49/month, and revenue will also be used to further the
development of Xdebug.

If you want to be kept up to date with Xdebug Cloud, please sign up to the
`mailinglist <https://xdebug.cloud/newsletter>`_, which I will use to send out
an update not more than once a month.


Business Supporter Scheme and Funding
-------------------------------------

In May, no new supporters signed up.

If you, or your company, would also like to support Xdebug, head over to the
`support <https://xdebug.org/support>`_ page!

Besides business support, I also maintain a `Patreon
<https://www.patreon.com/derickr>`_ page and a profile on `GitHub sponsors
<https://github.com/sponsors/derickr>`_.
