Walking: Southall to Uxbridge
=============================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2023-05-16 09:32 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, hiking, slowways
   :Short: sou-uxb

There were strikes on this weekend, so instead of taking a train out of London
for a walk, I decided to do a few urban Slow Ways routes, from Southall via
Hounslow, Harlington, and Iver, to Uxbridge.

Southall has a brand new station, built for the Elizabeth Line, to replace the
slightly dingy one just to the south. From here, I walked a short stretch
along a few residential roads, although there was a nice cycle path along the
road to the Grand Union Canal.

.. image:: https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/52897860063_f32770019f_n_d.jpg
   :title: Fences :-(
   :align: right

Instead of going through Wolf Fields Park, the route took me around it with
fences on both side. I don't know what. After a few more residential roads, I
crossed under the M4 although the route's surroundings stayed the same. After
crossing the A4 the route briefly goes through Lampton Park, where my planned
route was blocked due to a new development. The detour *through* the park was
probably more pleasant though. As it seems like a temporary blockage, I don't
think the route needs adjusting.

.. image:: https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/52897861238_f6f3f736b0_d.jpg
   :title: A Road
   :align: left

From Hounslow Central I returned back towards Lampton Park, where a fun fair
was just breaking up. This caused a few annoyances are trucks and cars where
on the footpath in the park. Although the route tries to avoid main roads as
much as possible, the slog along the A4 towards Heathrow was particularly
unpleasant.

After crossing the River Crane, the walk finally moved away from a
busy road, first along Cranford Park for a little, and then along a lane (with
pavement) towards Harlington.

.. image:: https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/52896842547_25e4791253_c_d.jpg
   :title: Cranford Park

After Harlington, the route continued much as before, by going along a lane.
It was not busy with traffic, and there was a fair amount of open space so it
wasn't that bad in the end. After going through the little village of
Harmondsworth, the walk became actually pleasant, even though it started
through a graveyard.

.. image:: https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/52896845192_21803672b8_d.jpg
   :title: Blossom Snow
   :align: right

It was a little muddy going around Saxon Lake, but it was quiet and green with
a white dusting of fallen blossom. The crossing underneath the M4 had some
graffiti on it. Mostly the annoying kind.

.. image:: https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/52897806455_a7ac139ac4_d.jpg
   :title: Too Tall for the Tunnel
   :align: right

The route continued following the River Colne, through some nice green woods.
There was then a short (but safe) section without pavement, and a very narrow
footpath towards Thorney. Here the route went alongside a golf course, and it
some points crossed it. Crossing underneath the Great Western Main Line was
haphazard, as the tunnel was not quite high enough for me!

The route then followed the Colne Valley trail/footpath for a
bit all the way towards the Grand Union Canal's Slough Arm. I always liked
walking alongside it and this weekend was no exception.

.. image:: https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/52897807785_fc36d94197_c_d.jpg
   :title: The Slough Arm

After leaving the canal, the walk into Iver is again along a main road, as
bridge across the canal had collapsed a few years ago. 

.. image:: https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/52897584069_38bbb144b9_n_d.jpg
   :title: Butterfly
   :align: left

Beyond Iver, my walk followed a section of the `Beeches Way
<https://www.flickr.com/photos/derickrethans/albums/72157720179665221>`_ which
I walked at the end of 2021.

After a lovely walk here, I crossed the M25 into London again. After a short
stretch along Iver Lane, my walk joined the `London LOOP
</the-loop-part11-and-12.html>`_ along the lovely River Colne, with a fair
amount of butterflies, to finally end up at some residential streets in
Uxbridge, which brought me to the station, and then home (and the pub!).
