Walking: Wembley to Uxbridge
============================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2023-01-17 09:42 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, hiking, slowways
   :Short: web-uxb

I have been walking `SlowWays <https://slowways.org>`_ routes for about a year
now, but I never put their reviews with photos on my own blog. I like owning
my own content, so this year I will be publishing them here in a more prosaic
form. So here is the story of my first walk in 2023, from Wembley to Uxbridge
via Southall and Northolt.

Perhaps it wasn't the wisest day to go out for a walk, with drizzle forecasted
for most of the day, with only a sliver of hope for a bit of sunshine in the
afternoon. But it was the first Saturday of the year and I couldn't let a good
opportunity for a walk slip.

As there were National Rail strikes going on, I decided to walk something in
London, and opted for routes that I had never done, but were close to being
verified â€” each SlowWays route needs three positive reviews for them to get
verified (or "snailed").

.. image:: https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/52629036823_2f732ee998.jpg
   :title: The Grand Union Canal at Alperton
   :align: left

And so I set off from Wembley along some residential roads before going along
Ealing Road and past Alperton station towards the canal. The stint along the
canal was very short, but I would return to it for a long stretch later on in
the walk. Alperton is mostly dominated by low-height industrial areas, with
lots of garages and body-work shops. After crossing the A40 at Perivale the
walk became a lot nicer with at least some greenery on the left, before
crossing Perivale Park with its golf course.

At the far left of the park some burly blokes let their aggressive looking dog
of the lead, which promptly came sprinting right at me, but also luckily
straight past me. I wasn't particularly pleased with this!

.. image:: https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/52628803974_b0b4112138_c.jpg
   :title: Perivale Park

Then the route continued following the River Brent, where the path was fairly
muddy, and crossing not just one, but two golf courses in the space of a few
kilometres. I don't quite understand why there need to be so many, especially
with the housing need that we have. I went a little off-course after crossing
Greenford Road, but that was my own fault for not following the route precise
enough. The last stretch to Southall was along a brick-walled public footpath.

This first section from Wembley to Southall was quite a nice walk, with some
minor nits such as the Alperton industriousness, and that bloody dog!

I continued on this wet and drizzly winter morning to Northolt, continuing
along it's busy "The Broadway", towards the Grand Union Canal, which it
follows for most of the walk. It also shares a short section here with the
`Hillingdon Trail </hillingdon-trail.html>`_, which I previously walked. I
would see more of that in the third section (Northolt to Uxbridge).

.. image:: https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/52628993020_7dbab49a19_c.jpg
   :title: The Grand Union Canal

It's pleasant along the canal, with plenty of wild life and boaters to keep
your attention, although it can get a little monotonous at times. At Northolt
I crossed a bridge over the canal, and nearly fell on my bum as the tarmac was
suddenly very slippery. Disaster averted, I then climbed up the hill into
Belvue Park towards St. Mary's church and the gardens of the former Northolt
Manor. The SlowWays route tried to make me go through a field, with a ditch, which was
decidedly not possible as there was nearly a foot of water. There was however
a nice path along the Northern edge which I followed to avoid having to go for
a swim. After leaving the park, it was a short stretch along a road with a few
shops and a lovely clock tower (with the wrong time) to Northolt underground
station where this second section finished.

After leaving Northolt station with its clock tower and shops, the route
starts off through Islip Manor Park. After a short stretch along residential
roads, I crosses the A40 with a footbridge, and then it was mapped along a
foot path straight through to the A4180. This path wasn't passable due to
large amounts of water on the path, and my boots weren't high enough. Instead,
I followed Compton Crescent and Vanbrought Crescent to by pass the impassable
section.

.. image:: https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/52628993915_0206a7c32b.jpg
   :title: Muddy Paths
   :align: right

On the other side of the fairly busy West End Road, the route continues first
over a tarmac path, then a gravel path, and finally a dirt path through the
woods, towards the Yeading Brook Meadows, where the paths were decidedly
muddy, but still passable. It was here where the route also started (mostly)
following the Hillingdon Trail again, through Ten Acre Wood, on top of banks
along Yeading Brook, and then along the edge of the field. I had to make a
minor detour here as the path was temporarily closed due to a heavy dead
branch in a tree.

The next section was narrow, and also still muddy, but
it wasn't a disaster. After climbing along a too narrow kissing gate, I did
have to jump over a little stream though (and I didn't land on my behind).

The final section of the route then proceeds along residential roads. It is
mapped to cut off a corner near Park Road/St Andrews Road, and although the
path is there, I didn't spot it, and instead walked around the construction
area. It's not enough of a bother to redo the SlowWays route as mapped, but I
have updated `OpenStreetMap <https://openstreetmap.org>`_ to be more accurate
here. I was pleased to see that much of the High Street is now pedestrianised.
The route finished at Uxbridge station, which has a lovely interior.

And that concludes the first walk of the year!

.. image:: https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/52628561161_fc4fb5c030_c.jpg
   :title: Uxbridge Tube Station
