Flamboyant Flamegraphs
======================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2023-11-07 15:00 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, php, xdebug
   :Short: flgrph

In this article, I am showing you how to make a flamegraph, a new feature in
Xdebug 3.3.

Flamegraphs are an interesting way of showing where an application spends a
lot of time.

To show you the functionality, I will be using Xdebug's own website, which I
run locally at port 9874.

First of all, we need to configure Xdebug to make our flamegraphs. We do that
in a configuration file. With ``php --ini`` I find out which file to use::

	Configuration File (php.ini) Path: /usr/local/php/8.2dev/lib
	Loaded Configuration File:         /usr/local/php/8.2dev/lib/php.ini
	Scan for additional .ini files in: /usr/local/php/8.2dev/lib/conf.d
	Additional .ini files parsed:      /usr/local/php/8.2dev/lib/conf.d/20-mongodb.ini,
	/usr/local/php/8.2dev/lib/conf.d/zzz-xdebug.ini

If you are running Apache or Nginx, I would suggest you use ``phpinfo()``
output in the browser to find the same information instead.

I have a specific Xdebug INI file called ``zzz-xdebug.ini``. Its contents are
currently::

	zend_extension=xdebug.so
	xdebug.mode=develop,debug

Flamegraphs are part of Xdebug's tracing functionality, which we need to
enable by changing the ``xdebug.mode`` line to::

	xdebug.mode=develop,debug,trace

The tracing functionality supports multiple formats. The flamegraph is number
three, so we need to set that as well by adding::

	xdebug.trace_format=3

By default, Xdebug Tracer will put files into the ``/tmp`` directory, and use
a hash of the current working directory to create a trace file name. We want
distinct flamegraphs for each URL, so we need to change that by setting::

	xdebug.trace_output_name=xdebug.%R

We start all files with ``trace.``, and then we use ``%R`` to configure to use
the URI. Xdebug also supports many other `formatting specifiers
<https://xdebug.org/docs/trace#trace_output_name>`_.

By default, all file names will also be postfixed by ``.xt.gz``.

After making INI changes, you need to restart the web server.

To initiate the tracer, I use an `Xdebug Helper
<https://xdebug.org/docs/step_debug#browser-extensions>`_ browser extension
available for Chrome, Firefox, and other browsers.

I click on the debug icon and then on trace:

.. image:: /images/content/browser-ext.png

After requesting the home page, and documentation page, Xdebug's tracer
created the following files in the ``/tmp`` directory::

	derick@gargleblaster:~$ ls -l /tmp/trace.*
	-rw-r--r-- 1 derick derick  123 Sep 26 03:31 /tmp/trace..05d7ef.xt.gz
	-rw-r--r-- 1 derick derick 2560 Sep 25 16:55 /tmp/trace._core2_css.xt.gz
	-rw-r--r-- 1 derick derick 3550 Sep 25 16:55 /tmp/trace._docs_.xt.gz
	-rw-r--r-- 1 derick derick 2419 Sep 25 16:55 /tmp/trace._fonts_IBMPlexSans-RegularItalic-Latin1_woff2.xt.gz
	-rw-r--r-- 1 derick derick 2474 Sep 25 16:55 /tmp/trace._images_logos_11com7_svg.xt.gz
	-rw-r--r-- 1 derick derick 2507 Sep 25 16:55 /tmp/trace._images_logos_io_svg.xt.gz
	-rw-r--r-- 1 derick derick 2530 Sep 25 16:55 /tmp/trace._images_logos_private-packagist_svg.xt.gz
	-rw-r--r-- 1 derick derick 2455 Sep 25 16:55 /tmp/trace._images_logos_typo3_svg.xt.gz
	-rw-r--r-- 1 derick derick 2523 Sep 25 16:55 /tmp/trace._images_logos_xdebug-cloud_svg.xt.gz
	-rw-r--r-- 1 derick derick 6165 Sep 25 16:55 /tmp/trace._.xt.gz

Because we go through our PHP router process, there are also files for images
and fonts.

The important ones are::

    -rw-r--r-- 1 derick derick 3550 Sep 25 16:55 /tmp/trace._docs_.xt.gz
    -rw-r--r-- 1 derick derick 6165 Sep 25 16:55 /tmp/trace._.xt.gz

The contents of these files look like::

	{main};require_once;require_once 3046
	{main};require_once;ComposerAutoloaderInit7d176ec022516f68e20dcb88554529a8::getLoader;require 7043
	{main};require_once;ComposerAutoloaderInit7d176ec022516f68e20dcb88554529a8::getLoader;spl_autoload_register 9408
	{main};require_once;ComposerAutoloaderInit7d176ec022516f68e20dcb88554529a8::getLoader;ComposerAutoloaderInit7d176ec022516f68e20dcb88554529a8::loadClassLoader;require 3176
	{main};require_once;ComposerAutoloaderInit7d176ec022516f68e20dcb88554529a8::getLoader;ComposerAutoloaderInit7d176ec022516f68e20dcb88554529a8::loadClassLoader 41368
	{main};require_once;ComposerAutoloaderInit7d176ec022516f68e20dcb88554529a8::getLoader;dirname 6061
	â€¦

In order to create a flame graph, we need to pass this through a Perl script.
You can find this script by cloning the flamegraph GIT repository at
https://github.com/brendangregg/FlameGraph

Xdebug automatically compresses trace files, which means we need to use
``zcat`` as the ``flamegraph.pl`` script tool does not understand that. The
output needs to be redirected to a file. On one line, we enter::

	zcat /tmp/trace._docs_.xt.gz
		| ~/dev/brendangreeg-FlameGraph/flamegraph.pl
		> /tmp/flame-docs.svg

You can now open this SVG file you can then open in a browser.

.. image:: /images/content/flamegraph-docs.png

The stack shows how deep the code goes, and interestingly, for most of it,
you'll see that a lot of time is taken up by Composer, as well as requiring
other files.

You can dive in by clicking on specific bits. For example, I'll click on
my template default controller:

.. image:: /images/content/flamegraph-docs2.png


You can reset the zoom in the top left.

Xdebug's website is not very complex, and for your own code expect to see a lot
more complicated flamegraph.

Once you're done, please don't forget to turn off the tracer, as it will fill
up your hard drive.

This new flamegraph trace format is new in Xdebug 3.3, out soon.
