Shetland
========

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2023-06-20 09:15 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, hiking, holiday, photography
   :Short: shetland

At the beginning of the month, my wife and I went on holiday to Shetland.
Our decision to visit these isles was sparked after seeing the TV series with the same
name. Although it's a crime series, the scenery was stunning. We did not
anticipate to encounter any murders though.

Somewhere last year I had mentioned visiting Scotland to my parents, and mum
was quite keen, especially to go with a small group touring company like
Rabbie's, which my wife and I had used on our whisky distillery tours from
Edinburgh many years ago. After looking into it, we thought it would be a good
idea that while they were touring some of the Inner Hebrides, we would make
our trip to Shetland, so that we could share the days travelling from London to
Edinburgh, and spend some days in Edinburgh together. It was a little earlier in the
year than we otherwise would have gone, but we felt that that wasn't a
problem.


London to Edinburgh — Jun 1

The first event of the trip was to get to Edinburgh, with my parents in tow.

King's Cross was its usual chaos, and it was likely 
busier than normal because there were rail strikes on the day before, and
would be the day after. We were early, and found an uncomfortable seat to wait
until our departure. As I had booked the tickets, which were are all stored on
my phone, I was going to have to let the whole group through the barriers
one-by-one. In the end we found a gate with its barrier missing, making that a
lot easier.

The train left nicely on time, and we got breakfast and lunch, and beverages
as we desired due to us travelling in first. As long as you book that early
enough, it is actually not that expensive, especially when you also have a
Two-Together Railcard, which costs £30 for a year for 33% off. My wife and I
have used this Railcard for several years now, and we also
bought for my parents as even on a single long journey you make the money
back. The train ticket came to £152 per person, for a four and a half
hours long journey there and back again, in first class.

When we left London it was warm, but grey. As the train was moving north, the
weather became lighted and lighter. The East Coast Main Line gets pretty
beyond York, and I knew we should look out for a large hill figure near
Thirsk, the `Kilburn White Horse
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kilburn_White_Horse>`_. It is fairly amusing
that it has "Kilburn" in the name, as that is also the area of London where I
live, although it is nowhere near. I have visited the `North York Moors
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/North_York_Moors>`_ national park before for a
hike, and actually got close up to `it
<https://www.flickr.com/photos/derickrethans/7720741122/in/photolist-FHkD2b-cLfPmf>`_.

As such, for a while I was peaking out of the western window of the train to
see whether I could point it out, but I would never have found it there.
Luckily, my mum's keen eye spotted it on the other side of the train where I
had not expected it. 

The train was pleasant and uneventful, and the approach to Durham, and the
stretch through Newcastle are particularly impressed. After zooming into
Scotland near Berwick, we made it to Edinburgh nicely on time.

For our first night we had booked the Travelodge on Rose Street. It was a
basic room, but it had a good bed, was fairly roomy. Both for the bed, as well
as the bathroom.

For dinner we had booked with `Kora <https://korabytk.com/>`_, a restaurant by
renowned chef Tom Kitchin as a little treat. Around a week before, we however
received an email stating that it would be closed for the night we would be
there, and instead, they offered us a table at their `Skran and Scallie
<https://scranandscallie.com/>`_ gastropub, not too far away in Stockbridge.
On top of that, they offered to pay for all our food. This was not
expected, but certainly very welcome.

Normally, restaurant reviewers don't do reviews for compensation, but I'm
willing to make an exception ;-). The food and the service was excellent.
I enjoyed some scallops as a starter, and their fish pie as a main, finishing
with a chocolate tort. My other companion's food also looked amazing. As the
food was free, we did punt for a more expensive bottle of wine, and made sure
to leave a tip according what the full price of the meal would likely have
been.

After dinner, we walked back towards the hotel. My parents went right to
sleep, whereas my wife and I ended up at `Fierce Beer
<https://www.fiercebeer.com/bars/edinburgh-bar>`_ for a cheeky half or two.



Edinburgh to Aberdeen/Ferry — Jun 2

After a good night's rest, albeit being woken up a little earlier than I hoped
by the binmen, we met up my parents and had a quick lunch at Pret on the way
to the bus station, from where they were leaving for their `Iona, Mull, and
Isle of Skye Tour
<https://www.rabbies.com/en/scotland-tours/from-edinburgh/5-6-day-tours/iona-mull-the-Isle-of-skye-5-day-tour>`_.

After they had left, we wandered back to get some supplies for our train ride
to Aberdeen. We were originally booked with LNER, but our train was cancelled
due to strikes. We had anticipated this in advance, and had booked a secondary
ticket with ScotRail, who were not going to be on strike. LNER would have fed
us again, but as ScotRail wouldn't, we headed to M&S to buy some sandwiches,
as well as some muesli bars for when we would be walking in Shetland.

Getting into M&S was fairly easy, but it took us a while to leave it as it was
a gigantic maze. We did eventually manage, and after picking up our luggage we
header to Waverley to wait for our train. We didn't know our platform yet, so
we waited in the waiting room with its nice ceiling and a cup of tea/coffee.

Once the platform was announced right at the last moment, we walked to the
train and set down in the carriage. I believe it was a little bit more
comfortable than LNER, but it was also more squeaky.

It was a really nice and sunny day, and the train going north offered some
great views. Not long after leaving we crossed the iconic `Forth Bridge
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Forth_Bridge>`_, and the views were especially
nice along the coast north of Dundee, going through Arbroath and Stonehaven.

We arrived in Aberdeen on time, and the weather was also still nice. The
station did not have any toilets, but we found them in the adjacent shopping
centre. While waiting for her to be ready as well, I saw on my map that this
same shopping centre also had a Brewdog. Considering they are from near
Aberdeen, and that we had to wait at least two hours to board the ferry, we
decided that it would be much nicer to wait there than instead of in the ferry
terminal's waiting room. So we had some cheeky halves, and also picked up some
beers to enjoy on the ferry as we didn't think it would have a reasonable beer
selection.

When the time to find the ferry finally came, we walked over to the building
along a busy road. It was not a very nice walk as the area seemed very
car-focussed. We did board fairly early and found our cabin for the night. I
fairly small, but well appointed one with a shower, tea and coffee making
equipment, and a bunk bed to sleep in. I got to use the top one!

As we were early, and the weather was nice, we set up on the deck in the sun
for some relaxing and reading. Once the ferry left and became colder, we moved
inside to investigate what's on the boat. Although it has a (tiny) cinema,
there wasn't really anything on that we fancied, so we headed to the Magnus
Lounge for a drink and some comfy seats. Access to the lounge came with our
more expensive `Premium/Executive cabin
<https://www.northlinkferries.co.uk/the-journey/accommodation/>`_. If you're
going on holiday, I would very much recommend booking one of these. They also
come with two drinks vouchers, and a continental breakfast for in the morning.

Once a table came free in the dining section of the lounge, we sat down for
dinner. The menu is fairly extensive, and many of the ingredients are sourced
from "local" producers — local being anything in between Aberdeen and Lerwick.
We opted for fish and chips as that seemed most reasonable on a boat! They
were pretty good, with nice crispy batter. The food is the same as outside of
the lounge, but there is table service and the Magnus lounge has a much more
relaxed atmosphere.

After dinner we headed upstairs to the deck again, to walk around to try to
get to our 10,000 steps. As it was pretty cold, we left pretty soon for the
lounge for a beer. We ended up reading until the internet finally cut out, as
we were too far from land for mobile phone signals to reach. At that time, we
used one of our vouchers for a night cap — a nice Highland Park 12 year old —
to finish the day.

We climbed into bed around the time the ferry was mooring at Kirkwall on the
Orkney Islands, just before midnight.


Lerwick — Jun 3

We set our alarm for six o'clock, so that we would have time to wake up, have
a shower, and get ready for breakfast. Although our alarms woke us up after a
fairly nice sleep on the ferry, we were really awake when at six thirty the
ferry's announcement system announced that breakfast was now open. 

After we finished our preparations we headed down to the Magnus lounge again
for our basic, but tasty continental breakfast. The only hold up was for
coffee, as the coffee (and tea!) machine took around 2 minutes per drink — an
age if you want to get caffeinated to wake up.

You can enjoy breakfast until half seven, but we did not need that long, and
after packing we left the ferry in search for our rental car. We rented our
cat through `Bolts Car Hire <https://www.boltscarhire.co.uk/car-hire>`_ —
ostensibly the mayor, if not only, car rental company on Shetland. You
literally see their cars everywhere. We went for their smallest model, a Skoda
Citigo. We're not transporting cows and sheep after all. At around £300 for 6
days it was pretty good value too, not that we had any other choice!

It had been a while since I drove, and it took me a while to figure out which
pedal did what again, and which way the steering wheel steered. After a few
minutes it luckily came all back to me, and we navigated out of the crowded
ferry-terminal parking lot — it was crowded because of parked cars, not
because there were so many cars being driven. As I was driving, she was
navigating, and after a five minute drive we ended up at our B&B, Woosung. Our
room wasn't quite ready yet, it was just after eight o'clock after all, so we
just dropped off our luggage, and headed into Lerwick for a little exploring.

.. caroussel::
   :name: lerwick
   :directory: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/
   :d516869: Lerwick Harbour
   :d516872: Jimmy's Hus

We we walked up the hill and into Lerwick's Commercial Street. At so early in
the morning it was eerily empty. Once we got to the harbour, I loaded up the
first walk of the holiday, the `Lerwick Explorer
<https://www.walkhighlands.co.uk/shetland/lerwick-explorer.shtml>`_.

Before our trip, I had searched for some good walks, of various lengths, all
across the islands. We were certainly not only going to walk, but while there,
it is the best way to get to the most scenic places. The `walkhighlands
<https://www.walkhighlands.co.uk/>`_ website as well as `Orkney and Shetland
Pathfinder Walking Guide <https://amzn.to/3D6dd3n>`_ from Ordnance Survey.
Many routes overlapped.

The route around Lerwick started at the port and then follows Commercial
Street up towards the east. Just after Bain's Beach we spend some time looking
at a dog playing on the beach, and taking some photos of the house just to the
east. We later found out that this building acted as Jimmy Perez' house from
the Shetland series.

Going around the eastern point, the wind picked and the walk was fairly
exposed. It wasn't particularly cold, but the weather was fairly grey. We
spotted an odd duck in the cemetery, which prompted us to investigate it in
full. We encountered Dutch sailors' graves as well. 

From the cemetery we climbed up along the coast with great views, and through
a golf course situated on this outcrop called The Knab, before heading down to
the waterline at a place called "The Sletts" which has a natural slope of
rocks into the bay.

After a little while along the road we explored `Clickimin Broch
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Broch_of_Clickimin>`_, situated on the shore of
Clikimin Loch. `Brochs <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Broch>`_ are Iron Age
stone buildings with a specific shape, and are found mainly on Scotland's
Atlantic Coast. No longer occupied by people, but rather its walls house
dozens of starling nests. The starlings were very busy delivering worms to
their screaming young.

Once done with the visit of the broch we walked back to the B&B to pick up our
car to head to Scalloway, to have a look at the castle and the museum. Once we
crossed the hills the sun came out as well, which was nice and also instantly
made it feel more like a holiday. We parked at a little parking place near a
stony beach, and walked to the castle and museum to only find them both
closed, and the castle in scaffolding.

Instead we wandered through Scalloway along its shoreline and found out their
Norwegian connection. During the second world war it was a location from which
the `Shetland Bus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shetland_bus>`_ operated to
support the Norwegian resistance. There are a few plaques and places scattered
around town, including the `Prince Olav Slipway
<https://www.scallowaymuseum.org/blog/historic-prince-olav-slipway-to-be-reconstructed-in-scalloway-as-wartime-exhibit>`_
which was opened by the then Norwegian crown prince.

After an ice cream on the beach, we drove back to Lerwick to 
drop off the car, and investigate Fort Charlotte situated on Lerwick's
harbour front. By that time we were fairly tired, and decided that it was time
for a well deserved pint.

Finding an actual pub was not easy. We first had a peak into `Da Lounge <>`_,
but it was full and uninviting. We did not want to have a drink at the same
place that we had booked dinner for, and ended up at `The Dowry <>`_. They
luckily could squeeze us in near the bar. Many people after us were turned
away because they were full. Both for dinner, and drinks (although there were
a few window bar stools available). We concluded that because there are so few
places for so many people that we should book into a restaurant for every
night we were there, and not just our day of arrival and the following Monday.
For the Sunday, we decided to just go have fish and chips at the harbour.

After our drinks we smooched down a few doors to `No 88
<https://www.no88shetland.com/>`_, where we had booked.
This was also full, with no more available seating. You really have to book in
Lerwick. Our dinner was nice there, and we also enjoyed a nice bottle of wine.
At that point, we also decided to book for every other night we would be in
Shetland.

After dinner we walked back to our B&B to finally check in, and we had a chat
with the lovely host. After retiring I had a quick look at the photos that I
took today, and wrote down some notes. Without these notes, I would not have
been able to write this all up!


Sumburgh Head — Jun 4

We started the day at a reasonable time. And after having breakfast we drove
to the mainland's southern point Sumburgh Head. We parked at Jarlshof, the
location of several ancient settlements, but instead of exploring that, we
looked for the coastal path towards the light house. This was going to be one
of our walks on Shetland.

The walk starts just behind a wall and is near the entrance to Jarlshof, which
I continuously kept calling Jarlsberg, the name of the Norwegian "cheese". In
any case, there was a nice big sign saying "coastal walk", although, that was
a bit superfluous as the lighthouse was in the distance up on the outcrop, and
the path was clearly going to follow the coast.

The walk up to the lighthouse is along a gradually rising path, which was easy
to walk on. The views to the right were great. We encountered some sheep with
little lambs. Most of them ran away when we approached, but a family clearly
just posed for the camera. There were a few stiles and walls to climb, and
with one nearer to the lighthouse, I spotted a few puffins just off to the
right. I had seem them previously in Iceland, but never this close. After
spending a few minutes to look, and photograph them, we continued up to the
lighthouse. The last stretch was fairly steep, but we made it.

At the top, we walked around the peninsula looking down at the cliffs, where
there were many birds, including a whole bunch of more puffins sitting,
flying, and fishing. After observing a bunch of Norwegians trying to take
photos of birds in flight, we decided it was time for some tea and a snack.

The café at the lighthouse was open, but as they were short staffed could only
do us drinks, and some take-away croissants, which we ate setting outside on a
bench looking out over the cliffs (and parking lot).

After having regained our strength, we had a look at the foghorn and the
museums. The site has four distinct things to visit: the lighthouse and
foghorn, a hut showing how the world war II radar station looked like, a room
with stories about all the lighthouse keepers, and a museum about the local
marine life, including explanations of the warm water due to the gulf stream,
and the recent decline in bird populations.

Once we were done with the museums we continued our walk back to Jarlshof,
first by going down a little bit before going up again to go over the local
hill, which had some views over the headland with the lighthouse. On the other
side of the hill we had a good view over Shetland's main airport.

Back at where we started our walk, we had a look at the Jarlshof site. They
provided a free audio tour with the ticket, which guided us through the many
stages of settlement on the site. From the Iron Age broch and wheelhouses,
through Viking settlers, and finishing as a Scottish Laird's home. The site is
very complex and well worth spending some time exploring.

Once we were done it was still fairly early and we intended to explode the
south mainland as much as we could. Online I had found out about the Red Pool
of Virkie, a specific pool of water near the coast that turns very red every
summer
due to the decomposition of sea algae. It was a little drive away along a single
track road, and we parked our car on the side of the road. There wasn't a lot
of space, but I don't think we were in anybody's way.

The walk to the pool was through fields of sheep and sheep dung, with plenty
of stiles. By having to go over so many, our technique for using them
improved. After about 20 minutes we got to the pool, and although I had
expected it to not be very red yet as it was earlier in the year, we were
happily surprised by being it very clearly so. There was also a nice rock arch
nearby.

We walked back to the car and then drove to `St. Ninian's Isle
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/St_Ninian%27s_Isle>`_ along another single
track road. To get to the island you walk over the beach, but there is sea on
both sides! This kind of formation is a `tombolo
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tombolo>`_, and there are not very many of
these. We did not walk around the whole island, but did trek up to the ruined
chapel on top of the hill. The hike up was a little taxing due to the sandy
nature of the path. There were some good views from there, although it was
raining a little.

Once we were done, we were ready for dinner and drove back to Lerwick to drop
of the car, and walked to the fish and chips place on the harbour side that we
spotted earlier. To our surprise, it was closed. As a matter of fact, nearly
all restaurants were closed, or fully booked. We ended up at the Golden Couch,
a restaurant serving nearly every Asian cuisine that you can think off. It was
nothing spectacular, but still pretty decent. And the only option.

Back at the B&B after dinner, I spent out the ferry reservations for our
drive to Unst on Wednesday. (*&F(*AS&DF


Noss Boat Tour — Jun 5th

- Buying deodorant at Boots, and gloves.
- Three shops for gloves. Bought half fingers only instead of ones without
  tips at all. Great success.
- Tea @ Café C'est La Vie, with waiting to be seated, more cafe space needed.
- Seal in the harbour while waiting for the boat to leave.
- Many many birds.
- Trip to Scalloway museum, where we found out that 1 hour is too short for a
  visit.
- Redress at B&B to go out for dinner.
- Catch last table for drinks at The Dowry, which had to turn many people away
  as they were the only open place besides the Golden Coach.
- We could get seated early for dinner, which we had booked. The food (Duck
  Confit, and burger) were good, but the service was a little OK.
- We had two more Lerwick beers in a bottle.
- Little stroll after dinner along the Knab to get to our 10 000 steps, which
  I still didn't quite manage to hit.
- Now 100s of photos to process from our boat trip.
- Finishing at the B&B with a lovely NEIPA that we bought at BrewDog in
  Aberdeen.

Eshaness Cliff Walk — Jun 6th

- Breakfast alone, with a haggis slice
- Drive to Eshaness:
  - Single track in places
  - Slow car in front
  - Hearse
  - Car on fire
- Start walk at the light house, and spend lots of time at the start for
  photos. First along cliffs, with dried up waterfall, and hole to the sea,
  with many sheep.
- Then inland section along road, startled two barking docs, along paved road
  to Tangwick Haa museum for tea, biscuits, and a look around. There was also
  a lost lamb.
- Back walking along the coast, where we spotted seals, and Dore Holm
  formation.
- There was a viking statue near an abandoned house, and then we had to walk
  back up the hill to the lighthouse.
- We missed the time for Lerwick Brewery time opening, but decided to try on
  our last day.
- We redressed and took the ferry to Bressay at a slightly earlier time than
  we expected. We had excellent food and wine at the Bressay House Hotel. We
  retired to their "whisky room" for a digestive where we chatted with some
  germans about birds, puffins, and otters, and where we and they saw them. We
  followed them to the ferry which we thought went at 8pm, but when we got
  there after a short walk from the hotel, we realised it was a 30 minute
  wait.
- We walked back to the hotel to have another tasty whisky instead, before
  meeting the Germans still waiting for the ferry leaving at 8:15pm.
- Back at the B&B we enjoyed another lovely beer, a La Trappe/BrewDog
  collaboration that we also bought in Aberdeen.

Hermaness Nature Reserver — Jun 7th

- I forgot to wear my walking trainers
- Woke up early to drive to the ferry to Yell. We were early and got on an
  earlier ferry, unbooked, but we lost the made up time again waiting for the
  ferry to Unst. The last part driving to the nature reserve was very narrow,
  and fairly scary to drive.
- After a loo break, we marched to the top along the board walks as the
  weather was being damp and grey.
- From the top we walked the 1km to the gannet colony, and entertained a group
  of four people whom we showed the virtues of our binoculars and hero clips.
- The colony itself was amazing and we spotted puffins too. There were also
  sheep and lambs defying the "Weak Cliff" signs.
- The walk was easy
  going, with a soft springy surface — even in my normal trainers.
- We walked back to the top and then descended the path towards the Muckla
  Flugga lighthouse, and the most northern place in the United Kingdom. That
  was a steep path down, and we were not looking forwards to have to do the
  same in reverse. She was particularly grumpy about this prospect.
- The lighthouse was a great vista and we passed a few more bird colonies too.
  At the vantage point, we decided that instead of going back along the path
  that we'd come here on, we'd go straight up over Hermansess Hill. This
  looked much easier on paper, and ended up being an excellent choice. Across
  the moorland down to the parking over easy soil and more broadwalk, we also
  saw several skua's.
- When we got to the parking place at around 14:30, we figured we had some
  time before our booked ferry left for Yell at 16:45, so we did a few more
  things.
- First we visited the Shetland Reel Gin distillery, on the site of the old
  Saxa Vord army base. This location is also soon going to be the new UK space
  port. After tasting (not me, I was driving), and buying some gin, we
  continued towards the ferry, stopping at the viking longhouse/ship, and the
  Unst (Bobby's) Bus Shelter.
- We got to the ferry easy and because we had such a tiny car, we got on the
  16:00 ferry, and we also made it early on the ferry to the mainland because
  the small car, arriving at Lerwick around 18:00.
- Before dinner, we had a beer at the Dowry, and then a meal at Da Steakhouse.
  Haggis bonbons / steak for me, and scone/steak + scallops for her.
- After dinner we went to Tesco to pick up tonic to enjoy a g'n't at the B&B,
  with some of the gin we bought earlier. On the walk back, the sun finally
  came out and we took some photos.
- After the g'n't it was time for bed.

South Mainland, and Travel to Aberdeen — Jun 8th

- Up not so early, as it was a long day yesterday.
- Breakfast chat with some germans also holidaying, giving them some puffin
  watching trips.
- After paying the B&B host £100 too much, we packed up, and put everything in
  the car.
- We drove to Sumburgh Head to buy our souvenir fridge magnet. The road up was
  narrow, and the parking was dodgy.
- There were two puffins on the walk up on a ledge, looking cute, which I also
  pointed out to a tour on the way down back to the car.
- The Croft House Museum, not far away, which we booked for noon. Here a
  lovely man told stories about the house, and how people lived there, despite
  the Laird's grasp, and of the crofter's Act.
- We walked to the water mill and continued along the coast to a waterfall,
  which turned out dry. While photographing birds, we got a herd of curious
  cows. I was wearing my normal trainers again, which was fine as the ground
  was dry and not rocky.
- We drove back to Lerwick for fuel, and contiued to visit the Shetland Museum
  for cafe and a visit. There I noticed when getting out of the car that my
  phone was missing. After a frantic search, we drove back to the fuel stop to
  find out that somebody had handed it in.
- We had coffee and tasty cake, but decided not to visit the museum. The
  lunches looked good here too.
- Instead we wanted to
  drop off the car and then have a few beers at the Lerwick Brewery, which was
  just across the street. Except that it wasn't, so we had to wait at the
  terminal as we handed our car keys in already.
- We boarded the ferry at 5, after which she walked circles on the deck again
  to get to the 10 000 steps while I was taking some photos.
- We had a lovely cabin with two singles and no bunk bed.
- We watched Lerwick slide away when the ferry left port
  the ferry left
- We ate fish & chips on the ferry, back in the Magnus Lounge.
- Beers in the bar, from Lerwick and Orkney, and we finished with a whisky.

Afternoon in Edinburgh — Jun 10th

- We woke up early on the ferry at 6, where we were woken up by the boat's
  announcements.
- Continental breakfast on the ferry, and left at 7:30.
- The train station in Aberdeen has no cafeé, but the close-by shopping centre
  has several. We camped out at Black Sheep until our train was announced at
  just before 10.
- The train was LNER this time, and we got fed.
- In Edinburgh we went to the hotel to check in (Angels' Share) and missed the
  senior Rethanses which were meeting us at the station.
- We were too late to see things after a light lunch at the hotel, including
  the Royal Yaught Brittannia.
- We and dad had whiskies at the Black Cat, of which one of them glasses I
  knocked over.
- After a beer, we picked up mamma rethans to walk to the restaurant as I
  though it was far away.
- It turned out to be near, and "Grazing by XXX" turned out to be inside the
  Waldorf Astoria. A bit posher than we expected, but it was good and fairly
  reasonably priced. We were underdressed though.
- After making my steps through twilight Edinburgh, we finished with a few
  drinks in the hotel; first in the bar, and then in the lobby once the band
  got playing too loud. Then sleep.

Travel Home to London — Jun 11st

- A lazy ish morning with great breakfast at the hotel.
- We arrive early at Waverley to wait for the train. I ate too much and had a
  train beer.
- Back in London, we walked to the Red Pepper for pizza and pasta.
