Walking: Hemel Hempstead to Amersham
====================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2023-02-09 09:23 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, hiking, slowways
   :Short: hem-ame

I had originally planned to continue `last week's </tring-to-amersham.html>`_
walk from Amersham to Chorleywood, but I had decided against that as it would
have made that walk a little too long. So instead, I incorporated that section
into this next walk, where I walked from Hemel Hempstead (not "Hampstead" as I
just found out!) via Chorleywood to Amersham.

Before I set off to the beginning of yet another Chiltern walk, I had done a
little research on how I could get to Hemel Hempstead as easily and cheaply as
possible. I found out that I can actually buy a national rail ticket at my
closest overground station (Kilburn High Road), which would also allow for me
to use my Network Railcard, giving me 30% off. I would only have to transfer
onto a proper train once, at Harrow & Wealdstone. If you travel by train a lot
in the south east of the UK, a `Network Railcard
<https://www.network-railcard.co.uk/>`_ at Â£30 is well worth the money.

Enough about trains! Once I got to Hemel Hempstead, I had some trouble getting
to the south side of the station. Apparently you can only get out on that side
if you have a special swipe card. So instead, I had to walk around and cross
the very busy London Road to get to the start of the "real" walk, which also
shares the same route as `The Chiltern Way
<https://chilternsociety.org.uk/the-chiltern-way-2/>`_ for some sections.

.. image:: https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/52671037554_d5fa5a7fce_c_d.jpg
   :title: Hedges and Paths

Once I got there, there was a fairly long climb up through Felden along a road
with no pavement, but also luckily with little traffic. Much of the first half
of the walk would be on a path, track, or road with hedges along each side.
But it was never unsafe as there was very little traffic, and the traffic that
did show up wasn't moving very fast. 

I still prefer walking on actual footpaths, and after crossing Rucklers Lane,
there was a long trek up and down a hill through grassy farmland. At the
bottom a lovely track brought me to "Tower Hill", where footpaths through
fields were easy to walk. I did not like the signs "bull in field" though.
Luckily, these signs were a lie. After a lovely walk through some woods, with
some good views of a village in the valley below, I ended up crossing a road.

My pre-planned route had me go along the road, but luckily there is now a
permissive footpath that avoids the road, where there was fast traffic. At the
end of the field, there was now a pavement to make the walk safe, and a path
through the woods allowed me to avoid another road walking section.

I soon left the small village of Belsize behind and ended up on a lane,
again with hedges on each side. There were soon some field-edge paths against
where were quite welcome.

.. image:: https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/52670747441_d063aaf3fd_d.jpg
   :align: right
   :title: Snowdrops

After walking past Rosehall Wood, my set-out route suggested I go through some
fields to Dawes Common before going over another hill to get to the river
Chess. However there were a fair amount of horses in the field, and as I don't
really trust these animals I decided to walk around them. Unfortunately that
meant a little road walking, but luckily again, there was little traffic. I
have proposed a new `route <https://beta.slowways.org/Route/Chohem/10280>`_
that should avoid the horse problem.

The new route avoids a hill, and another few fields of horses. It also meant
that I walked along the lovely river Chess for a fair distance, as part of the
`Chess Valley Walk <https://www.chilternsaonb.org/map_marker/chess-valley-walk/>`_.

.. image:: https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/52670748651_c6b56f4b2d_w_d.jpg
   :align: left
   :title: Little Egret

I spotted the first snow drops of the year along the lanes and the Chess
Valley Walk themselves, and in the river a Little Egret. Once I had crossed
the river on a wooden bridge, the rest of this first section went through the
Chorleywood House Estate, and Chorleywood Common to end up close to the tube
station.

I have walked from Chorleywood to Amersham before (or rather, in the opposite
direction) as part of my `Tube Walking <https://tube.derickrethans.nl>`_ project a few years ago. This time
however I did not have to visit Chalfont & Latimer's station, which made the
whole walk a lot nicer. The route that I ended up walking was not quite the
one that I originally was planning to do (`Amecho 1
<https://beta.slowways.org/Route/Amecho/1882>`_). But it turned out that it
was the better variant that was also already verified (`Amecho 2
<https://beta.slowways.org/Route/Amecho/8817>`_).

From Chorleywood's "High Street" I walked along an avenue for a while before
crossing into Carpenters Wood. From here on until Amersham, all of the walking
was through woods, with no cows insight. There were a few places where I had
to cross a road, but that was generally not a problem. 

.. image:: https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/52670248107_16d9c90643_c_d.jpg
   :title: Chenies Manor

After crossing one such road, Amersham Road, the walk brought me along Chenies
Manor and through the estate. I very much liked going through all the woods,
and there were often also great view of the Chess Valley, and another stately
home, `Latimer House <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Latimer_House>`_. 

.. image:: https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/52670751946_ff36231652_w_d.jpg
   :align: right
   :title: Daffodils

I also spotted my first daffodils of the season, and a Muntjac (a tiny deer),
but it was too fast to be caught on camera. This was not a problem with the
daffodils. 

The last woods that I walked through was the Market Reading Wood. From there
on the walk was along pavements and a sports centre, before finishing the walk
at Amersham station.

.. image:: https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/52671188075_1aa956c716_c_d.jpg
   :title: Views of the Chess Valley

Unfortunately, when I got there, the station was shut and there were posters
with "rail replacement buses": there were no Metropolitan line services, nor
Chiltern services into Marylebone at all. Although I was quite diligent doing
research to get to the start of my walk, I neglected to do the same for the
return journey!

I managed to get on the hourly bus to Rickmansworth quite soon, because it was
10 minutes late. At Rickmansworth I had to wait a while to get onto my second
rail replacement service to Wembley Park, another Metropolitan line station.
I was hoping to get off at Northwick Park to walk to Kenton, where I then
could take the Bakerloo line home. But although the bus stopped at every Met
line station, it went straight from Harrow-on-the-Hill to Wembley Park, and
didn't stop at Northwick Park. I did make it home about three hours after I
finished the walk. Next time: more train research!

It was a thoroughly enjoyable walk though, and I bet it would be even nicer
when there is more green on the trees again.

