Walking: Tring to Amersham
==========================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2023-01-31 09:23 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, hiking, slowways
   :Short: tri-ame

.. image:: https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/52655954287_f44f8aef7f_w_d.jpg
   :title: Grand Union Canal
   :align: right

I usually walk multiple `SlowWays <https://slowways.org>`_ routes in a single
walk, but last Saturday I only walked a slightly longer one, from Tring to
Amersham. Some of that was because to get to the start of the official route,
you first need to get there from Tring station, which means a slog along a
busy road into down. But I did get a peek of the Grand Union Canal.

I have walked the length of the canal at the end of 2021, and I regret not
having written this journey up, nor having taken loads of nice photos. I only
took some mobile phone shots sadly.

The church in Tring is a lovely building, made better by a bright red postbox
right in front of it. I have walked past here a few times before, but it was
never quiet enough to get a reasonable shot of it.

.. image:: https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/52656440051_d7c2be0faf_c_d.jpg
   :title: The Church at Tring

From Tring's High Street I soon followed some narrow public footpaths to cross
the A41 (M) on a loopy bridge, and ended up in Tring Park. It was a fair
climb up a muddy hill, but it wasn't too bad. The views were pretty good when
I looked at where I came from.

.. image:: https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/52655955737_c8e6e3e24d_c_d.jpg
   :title: Views from Tring Park

Once at the top, my route went through a wood, and spotted the "Riddle of the
Ruin", where I got a little lost as the path was hard to see due to so many
leaves on the ground. It wasn't a big deal though and soon I left Tring Park
and I continued to follow a foot path at the edge of a field, avoiding the
road on the other side. After a little while this was no longer possible and
had to walk a little on the road. It wasn't busy though.

.. image:: https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/52655956812_430f82bb10_d.jpg
   :align: right
   :title: NO CYCLING

At the end of the field, the route then proceeded through woods, where the
paths were fairly muddy still. After crossing a field with a hedge on the left
I walked towards Shire Lane, which I followed for a while before ending up in
some private woods where you definitely couldn't cycle, but horse riding was
fine.

I got a wee bit lost as the paths weren't mapped very well. At the other side
and across from the cricket pitch I came upon a lovely windmill.

.. image:: https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/52656442666_1a01a745c4_c_d.jpg
   :title: Windmill

I walked down the steep Ray's Hill, where the SlowWays route indicated a
direction that wasn't possible. I had to continue down the hill along the road
for a few hundred metres more, before then following a public foot path again.

.. image:: https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/52656443806_c277f864ef_d.jpg
   :align: left
   :title: Muddy Path

This stretch of the walk was in the bottom of a valley with a reasonable good
foot path, no fence to the left, and woods to my right. The path was a little
muddy all the way and along Ramscote Lane.

There my walk led me towards Chesham in
between hedges and fences. The section through Chesham wasn't very nice, with
loads of cars on the road, and parked on the pavement, although the high
street itself was okay. After passing a play ground, tennis fields, and an
allotment, the walk went underneath the Metropolitan line tracks up the hill
and through Chesham Bois Wood.

Here a lady asked me whether I had seen her white dog â€” I had not. After
coming out of the woods, and crossing Chesham Bois Common, there was a short
section to the train station, where I (of course) ended up missing my train by
2 minutes.

The Metropolitan line was only going as far as Harrow-on-the-Hill, so I waited
for the Chiltern train to Marylebone instead.

.. image:: https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/52656728974_02076f6410_c_d.jpg
   :title: Metropolitan Line Train Arriving at the Platform
