Friday Night Dinner: Noon
=========================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: Griend 7, 6221 AJ Maastricht, The Netherlands
   :Date: 2023-12-22 18:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: noon
   :URL: https://noonmaastricht.nl/
   :Costs: Food: €70, Drinks: €26
   :Rating: positive

Even when we're out of the country, we try to keep our tradition in place, and
so we found ourselves on a cold and rainy evening at Noon, in Maastricht, in
the Netherlands.

When we arrived just after 18:00, the restaurant was already quite full. With
a few dozen tables, some high tables, and a bar where a bar keep was making
plenty of colourful cocktails. We were seated at a high table right in the
middle of the stylishly appointed establishment.

While enjoying a glass of cava, we shared a couple of starters. The Drunken
Salmon (salmon cured in gin and yoghurt), and the Asian slow-roasted Pork
Belly. Both were excellent. Flavourful and succulent.

For my main, I chose the Asian Ribs. I realised it was another Asian-flavoured
dish — I know, "Asia" isn't a country. I am usually not keen on ribs, but
these were boneless, and that made all the difference. That, and the lovely,
and slightly spicy sauce that was slathered over the ribs with a few tiny bits
of red chilli.

My partner's choice was the butter steak, medium rare. That came with carrots
and a delicious mushroom foam. The sauce was made with Pedro Ximénez sherry,
and had a nice shine to it. With our mains, we each enjoyed a glass of Merlot.
The only (minor) let down were their chips that were served with our mains.
They were slightly chewy.

It was a very enjoyable meal in a charming environment, and with very
reasonable prices. A great birthday meal!
