Xdebug Update: June 2023
========================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2023-07-04 09:52 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, php, xdebug
   :Short: xdebug-23jun

In this monthly update I explain what happened with Xdebug development
in this past two months. These are normally published on the first
Tuesday on or after the 5th of each month.

`Patreon <https://www.patreon.com/derickr>`_ and `GitHub
<https://github.com/sponsors/derickr/>`_ supporters will get it earlier,
around the first of each month.

You can `become a patron <https://www.patreon.com/bePatron?u=7864328>`_
or support me through `GitHub Sponsors
<https://github.com/sponsors/derickr>`_. I am currently 38% towards my $2,500
per month goal, which is set to allow continued maintenance of Xdebug.

If you are leading a team or company, then it is also possible to
support Xdebug through `a subscription <https://xdebug.org/support>`_.

In the last month, I spend around 10 hours on Xdebug, with 24 hours funded.
This is much less than I wanted, but instead I have been busy implementing
features for PHP, and been on holiday. I expect to spend a significantly more
amount of time on Xdebug in July.

Towards Xdebug 3.3
------------------

Now PHP 8.3 has its first alpha releases made, it is time to have a look at
what needs to be added to Xdebug to support these new features. At the moment,
it looks like there are no actual breaking changes in PHP, and Xdebug's master
branch on GIT compiles and runs fine with PHP 8.3.

I will have to investigate the following features to see if I can add things
to Xdebug to make these more useful:

- `Typed Class Constants <https://wiki.php.net/rfc/typed_class_constants>`_ —
  I could perhaps show these as part of the representation of classes during
  debugging.
- `Readonly Amendments <https://wiki.php.net/rfc/readonly_amendments>`_ —
  PHP's classes can now also be marked as ``readonly``, and having this
  reflected in ``xdebug_var_dump()`` and the debugging protocol would likely
  be useful too.

In addition to PHP 8.3 specific features, I have also done some research into
Xdebug-side path mappings. As part of this, I have drafted a document `"Native
Xdebug Path Mappings"
<https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uGFocdX3WtlyGIUOCH_lej4oWyi4GPa9ayyaxM0ab1I/edit?usp=sharing>`_
to collect ideas and a draft specification. This would allow for applications
written in PHP to define their own path, file, and line mappings, instead of
relying solely on IDEs to implement this. This is a large amount of work, and
hence I am intending to "Crowd Fund" this in a specific way. I have already
received pledges for about half of the time.

If you have comments, suggestions, or if your company wants to help fund this
feature, please `reach out <mailto:derick@xdebug.org>`_, or leave comments on
the document.

Xdebug Videos
-------------

I have published no new videos in the last few months.

I have continued writing scripts for videos about Xdebug 3.2's features,
and am also intending to make a video about "Running Xdebug in
Production", and the updated "xdebug.client_discovery_header" feature (from
Xdebug 3.1).

Let me know what you'd like to see!

You can find all previous videos on my `YouTube channel
<https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLg9Kjjye-m1g_eXpdaifUqLqALLqZqKd4>`_.

Business Supporter Scheme and Funding
-------------------------------------

In the last few months, three new business supporters signed up:

- `11com7 <https://www.11com7.de>`_
- `b13 <https://b13.com>`_.
- `IO Belgium <https://www.iodigital.com>`_

I have also reached out to all other existing supporters to ask for a logo, to
replace their text only mentions on the Xdebug home page.

If you, or your company, would also like to support Xdebug, head over to
the `support <https://xdebug.org/support>`_ page!

Besides business support, I also maintain a `Patreon
<https://www.patreon.com/derickr>`_ page, a profile on `GitHub sponsors
<https://github.com/sponsors/derickr>`_, as well as an `OpenCollective
<https://opencollective.com/xdebug>`_ organisation.

Xdebug Cloud
------------

Xdebug Cloud is the *Proxy As A Service* platform to allow for debugging
in more scenarios, where it is hard, or impossible, to have Xdebug make
a connection to the IDE. It is continuing to operate as Beta release.

Packages start at £49/month, and I have recently introduced a package
for larger companies. This has a larger initial set of tokens, and
discounted extra tokens.

If you want to be kept up to date with Xdebug Cloud, please sign up to
the `mailinglist <https://xdebug.cloud/newsletter>`_, which I will use
to send out an update not more than once a month.
