Xdebug Update: July 2023
========================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2023-08-08 09:52 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, php, xdebug
   :Short: xdebug-23jul

In this monthly update I explain what happened with Xdebug development
in this past two months. These are normally published on the first
Tuesday on or after the 5th of each month.

`Patreon <https://www.patreon.com/derickr>`_ and `GitHub
<https://github.com/sponsors/derickr/>`_ supporters will get it earlier,
around the first of each month.

You can `become a patron <https://www.patreon.com/bePatron?u=7864328>`_
or support me through `GitHub Sponsors
<https://github.com/sponsors/derickr>`_. I am currently 37% towards my $2,500
per month goal, which is set to allow continued maintenance of Xdebug.

If you are leading a team or company, then it is also possible to
support Xdebug through `a subscription <https://xdebug.org/support>`_.

In the last month, I spend around 15 hours on Xdebug, with 25 hours funded.
This is much less than I wanted, but instead I have been busy implementing
features for PHP.

Towards Xdebug 3.3
------------------

I have been keeping up with changes in PHP 8.3's development, and had to
adjust some tests as PHP has changed a few things, making my expected results
incorrect.

I also fixed a number of crash bugs, resulting in the release of Xdebug 3.2.2
early in the month.

Now PHP 8.3 has its first beta release, it is soon time to make an alpha
release of Xdebug so that it can be installed through PECL, instead of by
having to checkout the Git repository by hand.

Over the next few months I will continue to work on the features and issues on
the `3.3 roadmap <https://bugs.xdebug.org/roadmap_page.php?version_id=101>`_,
without any guarantees these tickets will be implemented.

If you have comments, suggestions, or if your company wants to help fund 
features, please `reach out <mailto:derick@xdebug.org>`_, or leave comments on
the document.

Xdebug Videos
-------------

I have published no new videos in the last few months.

Let me know what you'd like to see!

You can find all previous videos on my `YouTube channel
<https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLg9Kjjye-m1g_eXpdaifUqLqALLqZqKd4>`_.

Business Supporter Scheme and Funding
-------------------------------------

In the last few months, no new business supporters signed up.

Some of the supporters that I reached out to, have supplied their logos,
making the `front page less bland <https://xdebug.org/#business_supporters>`_.

If you, or your company, would also like to support Xdebug, head over to
the `support <https://xdebug.org/support>`_ page!

Besides business support, I also maintain a `Patreon
<https://www.patreon.com/derickr>`_ page, a profile on `GitHub sponsors
<https://github.com/sponsors/derickr>`_, as well as an `OpenCollective
<https://opencollective.com/xdebug>`_ organisation.

Xdebug Cloud
------------

Xdebug Cloud is the *Proxy As A Service* platform to allow for debugging
in more scenarios, where it is hard, or impossible, to have Xdebug make
a connection to the IDE. It is continuing to operate as Beta release.

Packages start at £49/month, and I have recently introduced a package
for larger companies. This has a larger initial set of tokens, and
discounted extra tokens.

If you want to be kept up to date with Xdebug Cloud, please sign up to
the `mailinglist <https://xdebug.cloud/newsletter>`_, which I will use
to send out an update not more than once a month.
