The Ridgeway
============

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2023-11-21 09:48 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, hiking, photography
   :Short: ridgeway

I have walked some of the UK's local and national trails in the past, first
the London LOOP and Capital Ring, then the Thames Path and North Downs.

I had meant to walk the South Downs since 2020, but then the world changed,
and I walked the length of the  `tube network
<https://tube.derickrethans.nl>`_ instead.

But it is now 2023, and it is time to tick off one more of the national
trails. I originally wanted to walk the `South Downs
<https://www.nationaltrail.co.uk/en_GB/trails/south-downs-way/>`_, following
the `North Downs <https://www.nationaltrail.co.uk/en_GB/trails/north-downs-way/>`_, and the
`Downs Link <https://www.westsussex.gov.uk/leisure-recreation-and-community/walking-horse-riding-and-cycling/downs-link/>`_.
But it turns out that `The Ridgeway <https://www.nationaltrail.co.uk/en_GB/trails/the-ridgeway/>`_ is celebrating
its fiftieth anniversary, which would be more fitting for this year. The South
Downs will be there next year too.

Like with the Thames Path between the source and Oxford, public transport
between the stages can be complicated. I started planning the first two stages
sometime in July and opted to do the first two 32 km sections on a Thursday
and Friday in early September, as the temperature would be sensible.


----

**Day 1: Avebury to Bishopstone**

I booked my hotel, `Helen Browning's The Royal Oak
<https://helenbrowningsorganic.co.uk/royal-oak/>`_ in Bishopstone, on the
Monday before my walk, so I was pretty sure it would not rain much these first
two days.

On Thursday, September 7th, I took an early train from Paddington to Swindon.
Even my advance ticket was expensive, at £59. I left plenty of time, about 27
minutes, to catch the hourly bus to Avebury.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-09c-the-ridgeway-1/d52_0315_web.jpg
   :title: Avebury Stones
   :align: left
   :width: 50%

Not unusually when relying on UK railways, this plan failed as soon as I got
to Paddington. My train left a little under 20 minutes late, meaning I would
have less than 10 minutes to get to the bus station. When I got to Swindon,
those 10 minutes had dropped to 4. I had to sprint to the bus station and
managed to catch the bus as it was about to leave, already drenched.

The bus to Avebury takes about half an hour, and I ended up chatting to a
fellow Ridgewalker. He had already done most of it, but not linearly.

`Avebury <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Avebury>`_ is a fascinating place. The
village is surrounded by a stone circle. Not as impressive as Stonehenge, but
certainly more extensive.

I spent some time exploring before setting off to the start of the Ridgeway on
`Overton Hill <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Overton_Hill>`_. On the way there
I walked through the majestic `West Kennet Avenue
<https://www.english-heritage.org.uk/visit/places/west-kennet-avenue/>`_ and
`The Sanctuary <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Sanctuary>`_, looking out
over the valley to Avebury.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-09c-the-ridgeway-1/d52_0318_web.jpg
   :title: West Kennet Avenue

The walk started for real on Overton Hill. I was already sweaty because I had
to walk up this hill. Instead of a lovely cool autumn morning, it was already
pushing 30°C with high humidity.

From the start, the route gently ascends on easy-going paths. You can cycle or
ride a horse for most of the Ridgeway, and the trails are usually reasonably
wide.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-09c-the-ridgeway-1/d52_0364_web.jpg
   :title: Two Horses
   :align: right
   :width: 60%

At the top of the first gentle incline, I ended up at Hackpen Hill. This hill
has a white horse in chalk on the side. I wanted to visit a few archaeological
sites while walking the route. This was an early opportunity.

The path towards the chalk white horse was blocked by an actual white horse.
Therefore, I set off along the S-bend road instead. A large concrete mixer
approached me, belching out black smoke, or so I thought. I took a deep breath
and closed my nose until I realised it wasn't smoke but a nice, cooling, fine
water spray!

Once I reached the bottom, I walked along the footpath back up the hill, only
to find that I couldn't see much of the chalk horse. It's a bummer for such a
steep climb. And then, the horses blocked access to the gate to get out of the
field again! This time, I gently squeezed past them.

Once recovered from the steep way up the hill, I continued and soon came upon 
`Barbury Castle <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barbury_Castle>`_, The route
went straight through the middle of it, but as there was little to see beyond
the round embankment, I continued without stopping.

The view opened up after going through a wood, and a path was visible for a
long way down into a valley. I chatted with a few fellow Ridgeway walkers, and
they were surprised that I was going all the way to Bishopstone. They were
doing the more traditional set of sections and finishing not far away in
Ogbourne St George.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-09c-the-ridgeway-1/d52_0369_web.jpg
   :title: Rolling Hills


The path was fairly undulating for a while, and once I got down to the bottom,
it was blocked by a herd of cows. I had to go slightly up the hill to get
around them. Luckily, they did not seem to even acknowledge my presence.

As it was a hot day, I was quite pleased to find a stretch covered by trees on
my way south of Ogbourne St George to cross the A346. This road lies in a
valley, meaning you need to descend into it and climb back up to the Ridgeway
on the other side. However, you get a good view of the village.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-09c-the-ridgeway-1/d52_0376_web.jpg
   :title: Tractor at Work

The route also turned north, alleviating the strong sunshine on the right side
of my face. Near Lower Upham, I rested on a bench under the trees. My energy
levels were really low, and I had little water left. In hindsight, I did not
have enough for a long walk in this warm weather. Even my energy bars had all
melted together and were hard to eat. But as I had no other option, I set off
after about half an hour.

The views from this section were excellent, though, with rolling hills,
villages, and cities in the background. A fair number of tractors were also
out on the fields.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-09c-the-ridgeway-1/d52_0380_web.jpg
   :title: Tractor at Work

After bypassing another hill fort at `Liddington Hill
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liddington_Castle>`_, the route brought me out
out on a fast-moving road with the same name.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-09c-the-ridgeway-1/d52_0382_web.jpg
   :title: "Ridgeway National Trail" Along the Road
   :align: left
   :width: 50%

Here, a road section of the Ridgeway starts. It is along a road with no
pavement and only a tiny verge. This was rather unpleasant, and I wonder why
not some arrangements can be made for walkers. The sign with "Ridgeway
National Trail" alone wasn't cutting it.

I could see Charlbury Hill from here, though, which I knew was near the finish
of today's walk. Unfortunately, it meant I had another 60 metres of climbing
to do, luckily no longer along a road with traffic.

It was now getting slightly darker, and after a short while, I finally could
head down to Bishopstone for a shower, meal, and sleep. That last stretch down
from the Ridgeway was enjoyable and almost like going through a canyon.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-09c-the-ridgeway-1/d52_0387_web.jpg
   :title: Towards Bishopstone

I arrived at `Helen Browning's Royal Oak
<https://helenbrowningsorganic.co.uk/royal-oak/>`_ a little after five. The
small complex includes a pub, a farm shop, and a hotel.

I entered through the first, picked up my keys in the second, and then headed
to my room. The first thing I did when getting to my room was to drink at
least 2 litres of water before enjoying a lovely cold shower.

I relaxed a bit and then headed to the pub for a well-deserved lager, which I
enjoyed in the lovely beer garden. I had a table for dinner booked for seven
but ended up ordering a little earlier because I was ravenous. Unfortunately,
my order had gone slightly wrong (they lost it), and dinner only showed up
around eight. Their venison burger was amazing, though, and so was the
complimentary salad I received because of the food order mess up.

After dinner, I went to the hotel's communal area, where I relaxed a little
and read. Not soon after, I went to have a nice long sleep in a bed.

----

**Day 2: Bishopstone to Chilton**

After a restless but relatively long sleep, I rose early to enjoy breakfast at
the hotel — their home-made apple juice was delicious. I wanted to beat the
warmest part of the day, and therefore, I wanted to leave as early as
possible.

I left just before nine and explored the village a bit — mostly because I got
lost! After finding the little path between two cottages, I headed to the
Ridgeway. This second day's walk would be slightly less hilly, but the
forecast still called for temperatures around 30°C and a few more high clouds.
I had created a "Plan B" in case it would be too rough again: I would stop the
walk earlier at Wantage.

Although today's whole route was a little hilly, the first thing I had to do
in the morning was to get back onto the Ridgeway, which involved a fairly long
climb. Again, I was sweating before I even started the walk.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-09c-the-ridgeway-1/d52_0394_web.jpg
   :title: Broad Path

But the Sun wasn't beating this hard today, and the walk started by going over
the nice wide paths. There was also some more shade from trees and brambles. I
enjoyed quite a few juicy blackberries in the places where they looked good
enough.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-09c-the-ridgeway-1/d52_0400_cropped_web.jpg
   :align: right
   :width: 40%
   :title: Rose & Crown

After about 2 km, I came upon a farm, and the farmer had kindly provided a
water tap. This meant I could empty one of my water bottles and instantly fill
it. This was welcome and alleviated my concern that water would be a problem
again today.

Not far after that, I spotted a sign to the Rose & Crown: "Down the Hill".
Having recently climbed up to the Ridgeway and been going for around an hour,
I decided that this was not a good offer and continued along the top.

A little further along, I stumbled upon `Wayland's Smithy long barrow
<https://www.english-heritage.org.uk/visit/places/waylands-smithy/>`_, used
for burials over 5,500 years ago. I looked around before continuing my walk. I
was glad for more tree cover and those light, hazy clouds that tempered the
Sun's impact.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-09c-the-ridgeway-1/d52_0408_web.jpg
   :title: Wayland's Smithy

The next point of interest was the ancient hill fort at White Horse Hill. It
has another chalk white horse on the site, but this time, I decided not to
walk down the hill to see if I could see it. Aerial imagery will have to do.

I did walk around the hill fort in the same location for a while, and there
were some great views of the surrounding countryside.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-09c-the-ridgeway-1/d52_0416_web.jpg
   :title: Path With a View

Near the top of the next hill, I spotted a bunch of butterflies. They weren't
straightforward to photograph as they kept flying away!

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-09c-the-ridgeway-1/d52_0427_cropped_web.jpg
   :align: right
   :width: 40%
   :title: Red Admiral

I was lucky with this lovely Red Admiral, which sat still long enough.

Amazingly, there was another water point not far away. I repeated my routine
of checking whether it was working, drinking all the water I was carrying, and
refilling my bottles. But this time, I had around a third of this day's 20
miles left. On I went.

The walk was going much easier than the day before, helped by the clouds, and
having enough water. Although the sky was a little hazy, the views were still
great. I had a lovely time walking and decided not to cut the walk short at
Wantage.

.. carousel::
    :name: ridgeway2
    :directory:	https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-09c-the-ridgeway-1/
    :d520438: View from the Ridgeway
    :d520440: The Path Ahead
	:d520442: Wittenham Clumps
	:d520444: Hill Side Farm
	:d520457: Rolling Hills
	:d520459: Didcot Power Station

From the Ridgeway, I could see the Wittenham Clumps, Didcot Power Station,
and, nearing the end, the `Harwell Campus <https://www.harwellcampus.com/>`_
with the `Diamond Light Source
<https://www.diamond.ac.uk/Home.html;jsessionid=B648D01F4F5DD095272EE118D524726A>`_,
the UK's synchrotron.

After crossing underneath the A34 through a dodgy tunnel, I had finished my
stretch along the Ridgeway, and it was time to head down the hills towards
Chilton, where I was hoping to catch the once-an-hour bus to Didcot.

Of course, I ended up missing it by a few minutes. Instead of standing around,
I walked to the next possible bus stop, which was about a 15-minute walk away.
A bus comes every half hour- but not at this time of day, apparently.

So I set off once more to a stop, which I knew had a service every 15 minutes.
I knew it was the location of the Diamond Light Source, but I had yet to
notice that this was right in the middle of the UK's atomic energy and space
flight campus.

The bus to Didcot was uneventful, and once I got to the train station, I
bought a big bottle of water. I was still thirsty, even with my extra supply
of on-route water. By this time, the light clouds had disappeared.

I was lucky with the trains, as one to Paddington arrived just as I got to the
platform.

----


**Day 3: Chilton to Wallingford**

A week later, I was again on my way to Chilton by train and bus to walk the
third section to Wallingford. The temperature was in the mid-20s, and it was a
bright day.

The bus route also gave me a tour of the whole Harwell Campus, with all the
space and atomic energy research places. And big "Keep Out" signs.

Once I got to Chilton, it was time to start walking. As I had come down from
the Ridgeway last time, I had to climb back up again.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-09e-the-ridgeway-2/d52_0482_web.jpg
   :title: Farm in the Valley

The first 2½ km was primarily flat, over nice wide paths. On each side were
galloping courses for horses, with a few riders out on this lovely morning.
Then, the route turned due east towards Goring. This section was quite
up-and-downy, with beautiful views peeking through the hedges. A few red kites
were out and about.

I enjoyed the views, including a field with many poppies.

.. carousel::
    :name: ridgeway3
    :directory: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-09e-the-ridgeway-2/
	:d520491: Poppies
	:d520494: Green Valley
	:d520496: Crossing Paths
	:d520498: Tractor Eggs

After a section through a lane of very green trees, I ended up on a road with
a mansion, a golf course, and finally, the outskirts of Streatley. The closer
to the village, the more traffic there was. At some point, a very narrow
pavement appeared before getting to the High Street with a lovely row of brick
buildings.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-09e-the-ridgeway-2/d52_0513_web.jpg
   :title: Brick Village Houses

After crossing Goring Bridge, the route heads north along the Thames. I
previously walked the `Thames Path
<https://www.nationaltrail.co.uk/en_GB/trails/thames-path/>`_, but its route
is on the other side of the river. I understand why, as you can get closer and
see the river.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-09e-the-ridgeway-2/d52_0518_web.jpg
   :align: right
   :width: 50%
   :title: Butterfly on the Wall

After a wall with butterflies, where I spotted this lovely Red Admiral, the
walk was mainly behind riverside properties. From South Stoke, the route
finally gets close to the river for a little while. This section of the walk
is flat because it is next to the Thames. The paths are often well-trodden
grass, making for a relatively easy hike.

The route into North Stoke was mainly on the east side of the treeline
bordering the Thames, which provided lovely open views of the surrounding
hills.

At North Stoke, the route passed through a churchyard along a lovely row of
bright pink-flowered houses.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-09e-the-ridgeway-2/d52_0537_web.jpg
   :align: left
   :width: 50%
   :title: Row of Houses

North of the village, the Ridgeway crosses a golf course. Luckily, you can't
see much of it as the route is lined with trees and bushes. Just south of the
A4130, the walk's route goes east, but for me, this was the end of this
section.

I walked into Wallingford along the Thames Path and was again lucky to catch
the bus into Reading, which was ready to go.

This was really a section of two halves. The first half is hilly, with great
views and the occasional horse. The second half is along the Thames, which,
sadly, I rarely saw. It being flat made for a nice change, though.

----

**Day 4: Wallingford to Lewknor**

I took the "River Rapids" bus to Wallingford from Reading. At £2, it is still
a bargain. I hope this scheme will be extended and/or made permanent.

I decided to walk on the other side of the Thames — the side not on the Thames
Path — to get back to the Ridgeway for some variety. The paths were grassy
and, if not for a herd of cows, also pretty quick.

After crossing underneath the A4130, I got stuck behind a group of teenagers.
Looking at their gear and maps, they were probably on a `Duke of Edinburgh's
Award <https://www.dofe.org/>`_ walk. I got confused and walked in the wrong
direction to get ahead, meaning I now had to follow them for half a mile on a
narrow path through the woods.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-09h-the-ridgeway-3/d52_0613_web.jpg
   :title: Winding Path

I managed to get ahead of them again after a moderately dangerous crossing of
the B4009, where the path continued going through the woods on a steady but
slight incline.

The path was windy and narrow, and the Sun was straight ahead. It was a lovely
morning, and I was enjoying myself immensely.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-09h-the-ridgeway-3/d52_0622_web.jpg
   :align: left
   :width: 45%
   :title: Grim's Ditch

The path through the woods lasted about five kilometres, crossing a few farm
roads. Eventually, the route followed South Oxfordshire's `Grim's Ditch
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grim%27s_Ditch#South_Oxfordshire>`_, right next
to the path to the north.

A little before Nuffield, at Grimsdyke Cottage, I found another water point.
The day was not nearly as hot as the first two days of my walk, but the water
was undoubtedly still very welcome.

After another 5 minutes, the path reached one of its higher points and turned
northward. There were good views over the Thames Valley, although part of it
was occupied by the Huntercombe Golf Club at Nuffield. The path was strictly
set out with a series of "numbered white painted bollards", but the promised
numbers were missing.

At the top, I had to cross the nearly empty A road towards Nettlebed, home of
the famous `Cheese Shed <https://www.nettlebedcreamery.com/the-cheese-shed>`_.
It was tempting but would have been an hour's detour. And to get to cheese,
that is even too far for me.

The route continued down a path through a freshly harvested field before
becoming steep on the way to Ewelme Park. The view towards where I came from
was fantastic.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-09h-the-ridgeway-3/d52_0650_web.jpg
   :title: Fields

The route became slightly undulating here, with woodland sections, before
coming up at the church at Swyncombe, where a bunch of crows were flocking
about on Rectory Hill. After having reached the top, the Ridgeway continued
along a field of sheep at the bottom near a stream. There was also a good view
of the hill that I had to walk up next to the side of `Swyncombe Downs
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Swyncombe_Downs>`_. The woods were fresh and
green, protecting me from the bright Sun for a while.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-09h-the-ridgeway-3/d52_0683_web.jpg
   :align: right
   :width: 60%
   :title: North Farm

After coming around the bottom of a field, a manor house, North Farm, on the
next hill came into view through the trees. The path was lined with bushes
with many red berries.

Near the farm, the route changes direction again and heads straight for
Lewknor and the village of Watlington in the valley below. The path widens,
similar to the section between Chilton and Goring. It is partly exposed but
also passes through the woods.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-09h-the-ridgeway-3/d52_0706_web.jpg
   :align: left
   :title: Walkers on the Path
   :width: 45%

After about a mile, I encountered a few walkers with race numbers. The stream
of them became denser and denser, and my lovely, relaxed walk became more
arduous. I had to step out of the way and dart from left to right on the path.
At first, I greeted them, which was alright.

I became quickly fed up, though, as the people coming towards me only had to
say hello once, or step out of the way once, to be able to pass. I had to do
that several hundred times. It was a real chore, making the rest of my walk
significantly less fun — I get out of the city to not encounter crowds!

After a while, I could see my finish point for the day becoming larger and
larger, with the occasional sound of the M40. There were many sheep in front
of the `Aston Rowant Nature Reserve
<https://www.chilternsaonb.org/map_marker/aston-rowant-national-nature-reserve/>`_'s
hill. 

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-09h-the-ridgeway-3/d52_0708_web.jpg
   :title: Sheep at the Foot of the Hill


I crossed under the M40, and shortly after that, I left the Ridgeway and
headed to a new form of transport, the `Oxford Tube
<https://www.oxfordtube.com/>`_,  a coach service between Oxford and London.
It had a convenient bus stop just off the M40 called the Lewknor Turn. Once I
got to the stop, the coach arrived nearly instantaneously. It goes every 15-20
minutes, so it would not have been a problem if I missed it. For £20, you get
a three-month open return. The coach was comfortable and speedy until the
outskirts of London near Hillingdon. There was a lot of traffic, so I will try
to catch it further from Victoria Coach station for the next and penultimate
section.

----

**Day 5: Lewknor to Wendover**

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-10c-the-ridgeway-4/d52_0864_web.jpg
   :title: Up Through The Tunnel of Leaves
   :align: left
   :width: 50%

Today's walk started with a bus ride to my coach stop. I had booked a return
on the Oxford Tube, and as I was unwilling to sit in London traffic, I headed
to Notting Hill Gate instead of Victoria to alleviate some of this.

The coach ride was uneventful, although it was a bit busier, even this early
morning. With the days getting dark earlier, I thought setting off early was
wise.

After arriving at Lewknor, I had to get up to Ridgeway level, which involved a
steep climb along a narrow road lined with colourful trees, creating a tunnel
effect. Once at the top, the low Sun blinded me as it reflected on the
slightly wet road.

Once on the Ridgeway, it became clear that autumn had properly started. Large
amounts of leaves were on the path, and the trees had burst into every colour.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-10c-the-ridgeway-4/d52_0868_web.jpg
   :title: The Start of Autumn

This section of the Ridgeway was very much on a ridge, with occasional
expansive views to both the left and right for a while. The path was
easy-going.

Like the previous section, another race was going on on the route. This time,
it was about half a hundred bicycles. It was a lot less annoying than five
hundred walkers.

Just after Chinnor, my walk led me through the lovely Bledlow Great Wood
before going southeast for a while with beautiful "scenes from the Windows
Start-up Screen".

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-10c-the-ridgeway-4/d52_0891_web.jpg
   :title: The Start of Windows

From here, my walk slowly trended downwards while continuing to produce great
views of cows in distant but very green fields.

Soon, a steep climb up a hill produced sweat, and stunning 360° panoramic
views at Lodge Hill.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-10c-the-ridgeway-4/d52_0903_web.jpg
   :title: Cows Blocking the Path
   :width: 30%
   :align: right

On the other side of the summit, a herd of cows blocked my path. Instead of
trying to squeeze past them, I decided to have a little detour to avoid them,
as I did not fancy my chances with this lot.

Then, finally, the route left the high grounds of the Ridgeway and let me down
the slopes towards Princess Risborough along some field boundaries and through
a tree tunnel, keeping me away from yet another golf course.

After a level crossing, I had to scale another hill to cross the other single
track of the `Chiltern Main Line
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chiltern_Main_Line>`_. A single poppy in a
field led me along a quiet road to the much busier A4010, which I followed
towards the town.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-10c-the-ridgeway-4/d52_0922_web.jpg
   :title: Autumn Trees in a Plowed Field

Although the road could have been more pleasant to walk along, the views of
colourful trees and freshly ploughed fields to the right of me were more
enticing.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-10c-the-ridgeway-4/d52_0927_web.jpg
   :title: Buzzard
   :width: 33%
   :align: left

Thankfully, the section along the road was short, and I soon found myself on a
quiet gravel path. Annoyingly, it was on an incline, but that did not stop me
from enjoying myself. Like me, a buzzard was following the edge of a field
towards the foot of Brush Hill.

The hill is steep, but steps cover nearly half of the incline. I am usually
not very keen on these, but here, it makes sense. The view from the top was
worth the effort.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-10c-the-ridgeway-4/d52_0946_web.jpg
   :title: View From Brush Hill, with Bonus Trigpoint

I rested here for a while, enjoying snacks and water, and watched red kites
swooping and soaring through the sky.

After lunch, I continued walking. The route went down and then up again to
another view over the valley at Whiteleaf Hill. While descending through the
lovely "Hangings", the Sun lit up the first hints of autumn colours. Unlike
earlier sections, the trees had yet to start losing their leaves here.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-10c-the-ridgeway-4/d52_0983_web.jpg
   :title: Mushroom Village
   :align: right
   :width: 40%

From here on, the route became familiar, as I had walked it a while ago on one
of my  `SlowWays <https://beta.slowways.org/>`_ adventures, but in the
opposite direction. First came the open hillsides of `Grangelands and The
Rifle Range
<https://www.bbowt.org.uk/nature-reserves/grangelands-and-rifle-range>`_, a
peculiar name.

At the top of yet another hill, I spotted a bunch of mushrooms. I expected to
see many more on my autumnal walk, but these were the only bunch.

After crossing a field, the Ridgeway skirts around outside the `Chequers
Estate <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chequers>`_, the Prime Minister's
country party place. Menacing signs are warning you to keep out. At the
moment, there isn't a fence on the section down the hill towards their
driveway, which you'll end up crossing.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-10c-the-ridgeway-4/d52_0987_web.jpg
   :title: Chequers

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-10c-the-ridgeway-4/d52_0998_web.jpg
   :title: Tree Branches
   :align: right
   :width: 30%


When leaving the estate, I headed the wrong way first and walked past a farm
shop. I was tempted to get lunch there, but the queue was too long. I decided
to continue walking instead. A dog refused to move, as it had not been bought
a sausage!

The short climb into Linton's Wood revealed a path through the leaves cut out
by the rain, which reminded me of walking around in the forest where I grew
up. I enjoyed some of the more exposed tree trunks, which had few leaves and
were still remarkably green.

After crossing and following a quiet road, I ended up on the slopes of `Coombe
Hill <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coombe_Hill,_Buckinghamshire>`_. The
clouds were getting sparser, which created interesting patterns on the fields
in the valley below.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-10c-the-ridgeway-4/d52_1011_web.jpg
   :title: Cloud Patterns

A tall pillar memorializing the `Second Boer War
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Second_Boer_War>`_ sits at the summit of Coombe
Hill. I spent some time with my longish lens taking pictures of a wind turbine
and a fire on a hill across the valley.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-10c-the-ridgeway-4/d52_1017_web.jpg
   :title: HS2 Building Works
   :align: left
   :width: 45%

Towards Wendover, you can clearly see the extensive works that are part of the
building efforts of HS2, the new high-speed railway that now unfortunately
does not go to more useful places.

After taking a little break and admiring the views, I proceeded towards the
finish, down the hill through the Bacombe Hill Nature Reserve.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-10c-the-ridgeway-4/d52_1108_web_cropped.jpg
   :title: Kite Fight
   :align: right
   :width: 45%

It took me some time as there were so many red kites about. Flying, and
hunting, and attacking each other. Most of them were just too far away for
good photos. Their aerial acrobatics were a sight to behold.

After a while, I finished the walk and headed to Wendover station. As I
descended, I enjoyed the last views of the valley.

Just before the station, the footpath was narrow due to HS2 building works. A
footbridge across the tracks straight into the station's west side was
blocked, so I crossed the tracks and used the main entrance.

I took the train back to London from Wendover, concluding the fourth and
penultimate leg of the Ridgeway.

----

**Day 6: Wendover to Ivinghoe Beacon**

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-10c-the-ridgeway-4/d52_1118_web.jpg
   :title: Wendover Station
   :align: left
   :width: 45%

Trains to Wendover go from London Marylebone only once an hour on Saturdays. I
went for the 08:27, as I thought the one an hour later would make it trickier
to finish the walk before it got (too) dark. It is a good thing that I did, as
the 09:27 ended up being cancelled due to a lack of staff. Which isn't really
acceptable for a once-an-hour service.

It was not the nicest of days, but I was keen on finishing the Ridgeway before
daylight saving time kicked in, and there would be way less time in the
afternoon for walking. I dislike the early darkness.

I arrived at Wendover, therefore, reasonably early. It was early enough to see
the morning fog lifting out of the forests that surround the city.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-10e-the-ridgeway-5/d52_1130_web.jpg
   :title: Wendover Fog

The walk through town was short, and I soon found myself walking around a lake
and a church, climbing up the hill along a wooded lane. The trees on the hill
to the north all had splendid colours. Autumn is the best season for this,
although the clouds hadn't yet risen.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-10e-the-ridgeway-5/d52_1144_web.jpg
   :title: Early Morning Clouds
   :width: 45%
   :align: left

Soon after that, I found myself climbing through a forest. The leaves had yet
to quite colour as much, and it had an eerie feel. Especially with the ground
slightly muddy and springy.

The path widened a little after a while before ending up with a lovely view
and some steps down into a narrow and muddy gully, which I followed to the
road and crossed into some fields.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-10e-the-ridgeway-5/d52_1163_web.jpg
   :title: Munching Cows
   :width: 45%
   :align: left

Unfortunately, halfway across these fields, on the other side of a gate and
fence, a herd of cows was on its way to block my path. As I mentioned, I am
not a fan of national paths going through fields with cows. Therefore, I
decided to backtrack and walk around the farm.

My diversion was pleasant, even though I had to wade through mud. Although
fully overcast, the view into the valley with colourful trees was lovely.

Once I had completed my detour, I ended up on the official route and into
Northhill Wood. The trees hadn't entirely changed their colours here yet, so
it was fresh and green. The wide path was easy, too.

After a short section along quiet lanes, I ended up in Bishop's Wood, at the
top end of Tring Park. It is a lovely wide boulevard, and at this time of the
day, it was full of people walking their dogs. The Sun was playing with the
colours of the trees.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-10e-the-ridgeway-5/d52_1191_web.jpg
   :title: Tring Park Boulevard

There were some excellent views over the town, but soon, I left the park and
moved onwards to cross the A41. The path was easy-going again, and a lovely
herd of sheep was grazing to my right.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-10e-the-ridgeway-5/d52_1214_web.jpg
   :title: View From The Bridge
   :align: right
   :width: 45%

I am usually not keen on having my walk interrupted by a busy road, but the
view from the high pedestrian bridge across the A41 was pretty good. Colourful
trees flanked each side, with the finish of the Ridgeway in the distance.

However, before I would get to my final set of hills, I wandered along another
straight path with a slight incline to cross the Grand Union Canal.

The section just beyond Tring's railway station was along a road with a very
narrow pavement. Fortunately, the section was short, and I went uphill again
through the woods — first on a slight incline, then up a long stretch of
uneven steps.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-10e-the-ridgeway-5/d52_1232_web.jpg
   :title: Cloudy View
   :align: right
   :width: 45% 


Once at the top, the route continues north along the side of the ridge, with
sporadic open views to the west. By this time, it had become slightly
brighter, with few clouds. However, it was getting a little windier.

Some of the paths were a little narrow here and sometimes a little muddy. The
views were improving, especially with the unevenly lit lands below.

A single tree marked the first peak of this final section at Pitstone Hill. A
few walkers were out, as it was a nice day. From here, I could also see my
finish point, Ivinghoe Beacon.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-10e-the-ridgeway-5/d52_1234_web.jpg
   :title: Ivinghoe Beacon

But I was not quite yet there. From Pitstone Hill, you dip through a little
depression in the hillside before getting up to Paul's Knob. I did not take
the opportunity to go up it, as it was not the Ridgeway's route. I did,
however, on my return to Tring. As if I needed to do more hills...

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-10e-the-ridgeway-5/d52_1243_web.jpg
   :title: Rainy Cloud
   :align: right
   :width: 50%


In this final section, it was getting a lot busier. A lot more so than at the
start of the route at Overton Hill. I understand why, as the landscape is much
nicer here, especially going up Steps Hill (without any steps). In the
distance, I could now see a rain cloud coming, creating the "fingers of god"
effect.

After coming down from Steps Hill a bit, there was one more push towards the
finish. I didn't take the broader path with many people; instead, I followed
the Ridgeway along its mapped route. I did not quite run, but I certainly put
in some extra effort to race to the top and finish my adventure at the summit
of `Ivinghoe Beacon <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ivinghoe_Beacon>`_.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-10e-the-ridgeway-5/d52_1251_web.jpg
   :title: Ivinghoe Breacon Trigpoint

I spent a little time lounging around and enjoying a later lunch to relax and
wait until people stopped blocking the things I wanted to take photos of.

There is a fair expanse of walking paths here, which makes for a lovely day
out. However, I still had to get home, and after about half an hour, I set
off. The rain clouds were now certainly nearer, too.

On my way back, I decided to get up all the little hills I had bypassed — I
was here after all. After coming down from Paul's Knob, it started to rain a
little. I thought the weather for my whole walk was pretty — albeit a little
hot for the first two days.

Red kites were hunting again on the hillsides. I like watching these birds
soar and occasionally dive to catch prey.

.. image:: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/2023-10e-the-ridgeway-5/d52_1295_web.jpg
   :title: Tring's Train Station
   :align: right
   :width: 60%

When I got to the station at Tring, I found that the ticket machine at the
regular entrance was stuck in a mode that didn't accept key presses.

I was a little lost until I realised another ticket machine was at the parking
lot side. Luckily, that one worked.

I had to wait a little for my train back to London. I used that time to get
the mud out from under my shoes and reflect on the different sections of the
Ridgeway — From the "ridge" walking in 30°C+ heat in the first two days,
walking out of the hills, and along the river Thames on the third outing, the
battle with 500 walkers going to opposite direction on my walk to Lewknor, my
first encounter with autumn's colours while walking around the Chequers
Estate, and finally this last section to the finish at Ivinghoe Beacon.

----

You can find more photos on in Flickr album `"The Ridgeway"
<https://www.flickr.com/photos/derickrethans/albums/72177720312737004>`_.
