Friday Night Dinner: Mountain
=============================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 16-18 Beak Street, London W1F 9RD
   :Date: 2024-08-23 18:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: mountain
   :URL: https://mountainbeakstreet.com/ 
   :Costs: Starters: £4.80-£18.50; Small(er) Plates: £14.80-£26; Mains: £36-£95; Wines: from £34
   :Rating: 4
   :Author: Derick Rethans

Another hip restaurant, one, that recently had acquired a Michelin star,
although they don't seem to mention that on their website. There was however a
difference in prices between booking and eating.

When we arrived, we were explained that the menu consists of three sections: a
selection of starters, a selection of smaller plates, and mains. They
recommended getting a starter and small place each, and a main to share. We
have heard this spiel before, and knew it was going to be too much (quantity
of food and cost).

We did our own thing, and had a starter and small plate each instead.

For our starters, my wife chose the cured dairy beef, lovely thinly sliced
meat with some almond shavings. It was perfectly moist with an earthy flavour.
I picked the anchovies and cheese, which were served on sourdough bread. The
cheese was whipped, with some oil sprinkled over it. As you expect from
anchovies, they were salty, which the whipped cheese was a perfect
accompaniment for.

As my main course I selected a mackerel with grilled peas. The mackerel came
wholly grilled on a bed of caramelised chopped onions, and the aforementioned
grilled peas. There was a sprinkling of herbs on top as well, to make the
plate less beige. The combination of the meaty fish and caramelised onions
worked great. My wife opted for an omelette, stuffed with girolle mushrooms.
The omelette was fluffy, wonderfully moist, and filling!

With our meal, we also enjoyed a lovely bottle of Psarades, a Cretian white
wine.

The food at Mountain was great, and the atmosphere inviting with a large open
kitchen. Do make sure to request a table on the ground floor though. It is a
bit on the pricier side, especially if you also share (or not) a main as well.

.. carousel::
   :name: mountain
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :mountain-1: Cured Dairy Beef
   :mountain-2: Anchovies and Cheese
   :mountain-3: Girolle Ommelette
   :mountain-4: Mackerel
