Friday Night Dinner: Burn's Night at Browns
===========================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 82-84 St Martin's Lane, London WC2N 4AG, UK
   :Date: 2024-02-02 18:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: browns
   :URL: https://www.browns-restaurants.co.uk/restaurants/london/covent-garden#/ 
   :Costs: Food and Drinks pairing: £110
   :Rating: positive
   :Author: Derick Rethans

At the end of January, more shops start stocking haggis again. Haggis is a
traditional food of Scotland and the main event of a Burns supper, where the
life of the poet Robert Burns is celebrated. It is often paired with neeps and
tatties (mashed swede and potatoes).

With my partner having Scottish ancestry, we usually prepared our own. In the
earlier years with friends and family, in the form of "drink some of Derick's
whisky". In later years just for the two of us. This year, we chose to not
prepare our own, and instead enjoy somebody else cooking it for us.

We have been to Browns in Covent Garden a few times before — we even had our
engagement party there. We know it as a reliable place with good food, and
tasty cocktails. For Burns Night they were offering a short set menu, with a
whisky pairing that sounded to our liking.

As a starter we both had the seared scallops. They were sweet and bouncy, and
just cooked right. There were herbs sprinkled over them, and they were served
with Parmesan crisps and a creamy sauce. It was paired with a 12-year-old
Glenfiddich, which paired perfectly.

After waiting for a while — too long really — the main event showed up. Three
thick slices of haggis, slightly crisped up on the outside, and served on a
bed of the aforementioned neeps and tatties. Served with a sweetened gravy, of
which more could have been served. I thought that the crisped up edges added a
little extra texture to the otherwise well spiced and prepared haggis. This
was paired with a 15-year-old Glenfiddich, which is a little spicier itself.

For our desert, the two of us picked something different. My partner had the
traditional Scottish Cranachan, where I chose the crumble. I can't resist a
good crumble, and this one was certainly one.

In the end, I thought it was a good meal, and certainly filling. The service
was a little slow, and some confusion did ensue while we were waiting for our
whisky to be paired with the haggis main course. I also thought it was a
little on the pricier side of what it is.

I think next year we'll cook our own again, even though means we'll have to do
the dishes too!


.. carousel::
    :name: browns
    :directory: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/friday-night-dinners/
    :browns-1: Scallops
    :browns-2: Haggis, Neeps, and Tatties
