Friday Night Dinner: Bubala
===========================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 15 Poland Street, SOHO, London W1F 8QE
   :Date: 2024-10-11 18:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Cuisine: Middle Eastern
   :Short: bubala
   :URL: https://www.bubala.co.uk/soho
   :Costs: Mezzes: £8-£16.50; Wines £33-£60
   :Rating: 4
   :Author: Morag Rethans

We visited Bubala, a vegetarian and vegan restaurant, on a warm-ish Friday
night in October.

Bubala is located very centrally, just a few minutes walk from Oxford Street,
Regent Street, and just around the corner from Carnaby Street.

The restaurant felt cosy inside, although the lighting was a bit on the dim
side. It was fairly busy when we arrived. We were seated quickly, and shortly
afterwards the server arrived with menus and complimentary still or sparkling
water.

Bubala is a sharing plates type restaurant, serving a Mediterranean inspired
cuisine. They had vegetarian or vegan set menus available for £45/person, but
we opted to pick from the à la carte menu. We ordered flatbreads, hummus with
chilli oil, baba ganoush, sweetcorn, halloumi with a fennel honey crust, and
(surprisingly spicy) spanked cucumbers. To drink we enjoyed a bottle of white
wine.

The food was delivered fairly quickly, but this led to an issue as the table
wasn't really big enough for more than a couple of the sharing dishes, which
were all quite large and flat. I ended up having to put my cutlery on the
bench seat beside me, in order to have enough space for the water and wine
glasses. My husband juggled cutlery.

Overall the food was tasty, and service good, and we'd return with veggie
friends. If we returned we would consider ordering only a couple of dishes,
and then ordering more when those were eaten, due to the table size. We
ordered an extra flatbread and this arrived hot from the grill within a couple
of minutes.

.. carousel::
   :name: bubala
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :bubala-1: Flatbread
   :bubala-2: Hummus
   :bubala-3: Sweetcorn
   :bubala-4: Smacked Cucumbers
