Xdebug Update: May 2024
=======================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2024-06-11 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, php, xdebug
   :Short: xdebug-24may

In this monthly update I explain what happened with Xdebug development
in the past month. These are normally published on the first
Tuesday on or after the 5th of each month.

`GitHub <https://github.com/sponsors/derickr/>`_ and `Pro/Business supporters
<https://xdebug.org/support>`_ will get it earlier, around the first of each
month.

On GitHub sponsors, I am currently 44% towards my $2,500
per month goal, which is set to allow continued **maintenance** of Xdebug.

If you are leading a team or company, then it is also possible to
support Xdebug through `a subscription <https://xdebug.org/support>`_.

In the last month, I spend around 23 hours on Xdebug, with 22 hours funded.

Xdebug 3.4
----------

I created the first alpha release of Xdebug 3.4 — with some preliminary PHP
8.4 support. The main reason for this was to test out the PIE tool, that
`James Titcumb <https://phpc.social/@asgrim>`_ is working on as part of his
work for the `PHP Foundation <https://thephp.foundation/>`_. 

This new tool uses `composer-style
<https://github.com/xdebug/xdebug/blob/master/composer.json>`_ definition
files. It also means that extensions like `Xdebug can now be found on
Packagist <https://packagist.org/packages/xdebug/xdebug>`_.

PIE is still in early development, but I shall be continuing to test out while
it matures.

The `3.4.0alpha1 release itself
<https://xdebug.org/announcements/2024-05-31>`_ adds a new `XDEBUG_IGNORE HTTP
variable <https://bugs.xdebug.org/2239>`_ to prevent Xdebug from initiating a
debugging session for this request only. This feature was requested by the
`Symfony project
<https://github.com/symfony/symfony/pull/52950#issuecomment-1884680470>`_, to
prevent debugging sessions for the debugging toolbar.

Native Xdebug Path Mapping
--------------------------

In the previous update I wrote about Xdebug's new `projects section
<https://xdebug.org/funding>`_, and the first project that I am hoping to fund
through this: `Native Xdebug Path Mapping
<https://xdebug.org/funding/001-native-path-mapping>`_.

After my announcement, several companies and individuals reached out. The
funding is now nearly there, with good hopes that it will conclude soon.

`You could be part of this too
<https://xdebug.org/support/buy/001-native-path-mapping>`_!

Once we cross the line, I will start with the implementation, which I intend
to include into Xdebug 3.4.

Xdebug Videos
-------------

I have created no new videos since last month, but you can see all the
previous ones on my `channel
<https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLg9Kjjye-m1g_eXpdaifUqLqALLqZqKd4>`_.

If you have any suggestions, feel free to reach out to
`me on Mastodon <https://phpc.social/@derickr>`_ or via `email
<http://derickrethans/who.html>`_.

Business Supporter Scheme and Funding
-------------------------------------

In the last month, no new business supporters signed up.

Besides business support, I also maintain a `Patreon
<https://www.patreon.com/derickr>`_ page, a profile on `GitHub sponsors
<https://github.com/sponsors/derickr>`_, as well as an `OpenCollective
<https://opencollective.com/xdebug>`_ organisation.

If you want to contribute to specific projects, you can find those on the
`Projects <https://xdebug.org/funding>`_ page.

Xdebug Cloud
------------

Xdebug Cloud is the *Proxy As A Service* platform to allow for debugging
in more scenarios, where it is hard, or impossible, to have Xdebug make
a connection to the IDE. It is continuing to operate as Beta release.

Packages start at £49/month, and I have recently introduced a package
for larger companies. This has a larger initial set of tokens, and
discounted extra tokens.

If you want to be kept up to date with Xdebug Cloud, please sign up to
the `mailinglist <https://xdebug.cloud/newsletter>`_, which I will use
to send out an update not more than once a month.
