Friday Night Dinner: The Cow
============================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 89 Westbourne Park Road, London W2 5QH, United Kingdom
   :Date: 2024-05-24 18:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Cuisine: British
   :Short: the-cow
   :URL: https://thecowlondon.com/
   :Costs: Cover Charge: £4; Starter: £14; Mains: £43; Wine: £35
   :Rating: 3.5
   :Author: Derick Rethans

We visited The Cow on a warm spring evening and went through a packed bar
downstairs to the much quieter upstairs restaurant. This place had been
recommended to us, so we were keen to pop along and try it out.

We were welcomed with some lovely bread and butter and had some mackerel pate
to share to start with. The pate was nicely flavoured but could have done with
being served with more bread, as there was too much pate, for the amount of
bread, even if we loaded it on.

I chose the Monkfish, which was well seasoned and had its defining chewy bite.
The vegetables that came with it added flavour, as did the tomato. What let
the dish down was the watery sauce underneath it.

My wife selected the cuttlefish with peas. The cuttlefish with the peas and
sauce was pleasant. The slice of sourdough helped up mopping the flavourful
sauce as well, although it did make the dish a little soggy.

When we left, the downstairs area was even busier, with no place to even
stand. Overall, whilst it is clearly a local favourite, we found it a bit
overhyped, and we will probably not go back.


.. carousel::
   :name: the-cow
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :the-cow-1: Smoked Mackerel Paté with Sourdough and Butter
   :the-cow-2: Monkfish on a Bed of Courgette and Tomatoes
   :the-cow-3: Cuttlefish with Peas and Toasted Bread
