Friday Night Dinner: Sudu
=========================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 30 Salusbury Rd, London, NW6 6NL, United Kingdom
   :Date: 2024-05-03 18:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: sudu
   :URL: http://sudu.uk
   :Costs: Food £39; Drinks £22
   :Rating: positive
   :Author: Morag Rethans

We went on a rainy Saturday evening. Sudu is pretty close to where we live,
but this was our first time.

The exterior is painted a dark grey and is a little unprepossessing, however
once inside, we were in for a treat.

We were quickly seated in a busy restaurant and saw many delicious-sounding
things on the menu. My husband chose the beef rendang, which he had served
with plain basmati rice. I picked the chicken satay served with coconut rice
and a plain roti. This was washed down with a couple of tiger beers. The
service in Sudu was quick and attentive but not intrusive.

The food arrived fairly quickly. My husband's beef rendang was nice and spicy,
as it should be, with nice tender chunks of beef that worked well with the
rice. My chicken satay came as chicken pieces on skewers with a bowl of a
spicy, peanutty satay sauce into which the chicken could be dipped. The
coconut rice was subtly flavoured with coconut. Once the chicken skewers were
finished, I poured the remaining satay onto my rice. The roti was delicious,
slightly crispy on the outside but soft and a little fluffy on the inside and
not overly greasy.

The food coming out to neighbouring tables also looked great, so it is likely
we’ll be going back to try something else from the menu.

.. carousel::
   :name: sudu
   :directory: https://derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/friday-night-dinners/
   :sudu-1: Chicken Satay
   :sudu-2: Roti
   :sudu-3: Beef Rendang
