Friday Night Dinner: Akub
=========================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 27 Uxbridge Street, W8 7TQ, London
   :Date: 2024-02-16 18:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: akub
   :URL: https://www.akub-restaurant.com/
   :Costs: Beer: £12; Pudding: £9; Food: £55
   :Rating: 3.5
   :Author: Derick Rethans

*From the archive: We visited Akub in January 2023*

Just off the main road near Notting Hill Gate station is this cosy multi-floor
restaurant serving Palestinian food. Opened last year, and the menu contains
mostly sharing dishes.

We started off our drinks with two Palestinian beers, a White, and an IPA,
which fitted very well with our selection of mezzes/starters/whatever you want
to call it. Before the starters showed up, we ordered a bowl of salted lupin
beans, called Turmous, which were very tasty. Similar to a mix of almonds and
perhaps Edamame? At least, the way you eat them was like the Japanese bean
snack, as it involved removing the skin in your mouth — if you were so
inclined. I was; my partner wasn't.

The starters that we ordered included three balls of a goats cheese (Labaneh)
covered in three different kinds of spices. Sumak, and two others that I can’t
remember right now. Besides that, we got a grilled Nabulsi cheese, which was
covered in some oil and seeds, and was slightly squishy like fried halloumi
can be, a little salty like feta, but overall a better texture than I think
that over-fried halloumi could be. Our third starter were spiced squash
dumplings, Shish Barak with Beetroot, which was also delicious.

Our "main" to share was the short rib Fatteh, which was slow cooked beef with
spices, with garlic yoghurt, crispy (like really crispy) onions, with some
fried focaccia squares to add some more texture.

Even after that, we were still not 100% satisfied, and had a rich chocolate
cremeux and pistachio ice cream to finish. It was all so tasty that we forgot
to take any photos!

The service was attentive, and our waitress explained approximately how many
things we should order from the menu, and she was spot on.
