Friday Night Dinner: Broken Eggs
================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 24-25 Foley Street, Fitzrovia, London W1W 6DX
   :Date: 2024-12-20 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Cuisine: Spanish
   :Short: broken-eggs
   :URL: https://brokeneggs.co.uk/
   :Costs: Starters: £5-£7; Tortillas: £12-£15; Wines from £32
   :Rating: 4
   :Author: Derick Rethans

A restaurant that focuses on one specific thing, Spanish tortillas. They come
in different flavours. From classic (egg and triple cooked potatoes), to
courgette flavoured ones, and Jamon Iberico. That, and a few starters and
drinks makes for a unique and rustic place, especially when it is cold and
windy outside.

We visited Broken Eggs on such a stormy and slightly damp Friday evening, just
before a storm would arrive. The restaurant is cosy with a homely atmosphere,
with friendly and welcoming staff. Spanish classics on the radio.

We had some Padron peppers and cheese croquettes to start. As is common, the
croquettes came as three pieces. Which I always find odd, because many
bookings are likely to be couples, and dividing three portions among two can
be tricky. However, they kindly offered to produce four. This was good news,
because they were excellent, and my wife said she wouldn't have wanted the
third one to share.

We however, did share the tortillas. Instead of picking a big one to share, we
chose two different flavours to split between us. One with courgettes, and the
second one with Jamon Iberico. They were both flavourful, and slightly gooey
in the middle. Perfect for scraping up with some bread at the end.

With our starters and tortillas, we also had a bottle of their house red. It
wasn't anything special, but on a cold, rainy, and windy evening that it was,
it was the perfect accompaniment to our meal.

It was a relaxed evening out, with good rustic food, for a reasonable price.

.. carousel::
   :name: broken-eggs
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :broken-eggs-1: Padron Peppers
   :broken-eggs-2: Cheese Croquettes
   :broken-eggs-3: Courgette Tortilla
   :broken-eggs-4: Jamon Iberico Tortilla
