Friday Night Dinner: Lita
=========================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 7-9 Paddington Street, London W1U 5QH, United Kingdom
   :Date: 2024-06-07 18:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: lita
   :URL: https://litamarylebone.com/
   :Costs: £20 (£8-29); Mains: £44 (£14-£160); Drinks: £36 (carafe, bottles from £54)
   :Rating: 2
   :Author: Derick Rethans

Following the lead of a better-known, piano-playing food critic, we visited
Lita, a new restaurant in Marylebone, on a nice spring evening. We didn't want
to sit outside with the smokers, so we chose to sit inside. What we hadn't
expected was to be sat right in a corner in the back—the darkest (and most
humid) spot in the restaurant.

With the menu came a spiel of: "We recommend a starter each, and then two or
three of the small plates, and then one or two from the big plates. The small
plates are just little bites." — I am paraphrasing here, but you get the gist.
Without looking at the menu, we already thought that, taking the advice would
mean we would end up with way too much food — we've been in similar situations
before. Seeing the price of each of these "small" and "big" dishes were, also
put us right off. Ultimately, we can always order another dish.

Instead, we opted for a more reasonable selection, at least in our opinion. We
started with wild-farmed sourdough, with cultured butter, and smoked Basque
sardines with a cherry sauce. I have *no* idea what wild-farmed sourdough is,
nor cultured butter; but it was nice bread with some good butter. The sardines
were nicely cured, and the cherries added an enjoyable sweet tang. It wasn't a
lot of chow though.

As our intermezzo dish we chose their salad of Provencal asparagus, peas, and
broad beans, served with a poached Braddock Whites duck egg. A light and
refreshing dish, with the white and green asparagus having just the right
amount of crunch.

And finally, as our main we picked the poussin, which was served with an
apricot jus. On the side we had a basic green leaf salad. The poussin was
perfectly cooked, and easily came off the bone. I've never had chicken and
apricot, but thought the combination worked really well. The salad was, well,
salad. Flopped out of the bag and dressed with a fairly basic oil and vinegar
dressing. Being critical the leaves were too large to eat in a mouthful, so a
bit of light chopping by a chef would have improved it; alas.

With our meal, we shared a carafe of Chardonnay, which was perfectly nice. In
most circumstances, we would have had a bottle. But they start at £54 here,
which is a little over the top.

The food that we had, was delicious. But we really ought to have had a look at
the price ranges in the original review, or on the menu before we booked. We
didn't think the value-for-money ratio worked out here. I don't think we will
be back here, also because it felt a little pretentious. Marylebone has both
better and more affordable places to dine in.

.. carousel::
   :name: lita
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/friday-night-dinners/
   :lita-1: Soughdough with Cultured Butter
   :lita-2: Cured Sardines with Cherries
   :lita-3: Asparagus Salad
   :lita-4: Poussin with Apricots
   :lita-5: A Bunch of Salad Leaves
