Xdebug Update: July 2024
========================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2024-08-07 18:10 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, php, xdebug
   :Short: xdebug-24jul

In this monthly update I explain what happened with Xdebug development
in the past month. These are normally published on the first
Tuesday on or after the 5th of each month.

`GitHub <https://github.com/sponsors/derickr/>`_ and `Pro/Business supporters
<https://xdebug.org/support>`_ will get it earlier, around the first of each
month.

On GitHub sponsors, I am currently 42% towards my $2,500
per month goal, which is set to allow continued **maintenance** of Xdebug.
This is less than last month.

If you are leading a team or company, then it is also possible to
support Xdebug through `a subscription <https://xdebug.org/support>`_.

In the last month, I spend around 15 hours on Xdebug, with 21 hours funded.
I also spent 6 hours on the Native Path Mapping project.

PHP 8.4
-------

I spent some time making sure that Xdebug will be ready for PHP 8.4, once that
comes out later in the year. There are always some incompatibilities, such as
the new `frameless calls <https://github.com/php/php-src/pull/12461>`_ and
some deprecations. 

I also did a deep dive into supporting a potential large change into the way
PHP handles the ``exit`` keyword. There is a `proposal
<https://wiki.php.net/rfc/exit-as-function>`_ to change that from a language
instruction to an actual function, but this impacts Xdebug fairly
significantly — it uses the instruction for path and branch analysis, and to
make sure profiling files get stored on disk in full. At the moment, it is
unsure whether this change will be adopted.

Beyond preparatory work for PHP 8.4, I also spend some time on improving the
out-of-band socket communication support to make it easier for IDEs to use.
This work will continue to be ongoing for a while.

Native Xdebug Path Mapping
--------------------------

I have started on the `Native Xdebug Path Mapping
<https://xdebug.org/funding/001-native-path-mapping>`_ project.

As this is a separately funded project, I don't classify the hours that I
worked on this in "Xdebug Hours". I also publish a separate report on the
`project page <https://xdebug.org/funding/001-native-path-mapping>`_.

As an exception, I am including it here:

In this first month, or rather, the last week of July, I have been working on
setting up a testing framework for the parser. Previously Xdebug only had
tests in `PHPT <https://qa.php.net/write-test.php>`_ form, PHP's standard for
testing syntax and functions. However, this is rather more an integration test
framework, as it compares the output of a script with an expected output.

For low-level features, such as testing the implementation of the parser that
parses the path mapping files, PHPT tests are not suitable. Instead, the
testing framework tests the return values and generated structures directly,
without PHP having to be involved. The `CppUTest
<https://cpputest.github.io/manual.html>`_ framework that I use for this, is
much more similar to PHPUnit. It is also a framework that I have used for
testing `timelib <https://github.com/derickr/timelib>`_, the library that
powers PHP and MongoDB's date/time functionality.

Beyond the testing framework, I have also made a start on the parser itself.
It can currently parse the remote_prefix and local_prefix stanzas, as well as
mapping lines, although it does not distinguish between directory maps, file
maps, or line maps yet, nor does it apply the prefix stanzas yet.


Xdebug Videos
-------------

I have created no new videos since last month, but you can see all the
previous ones on my `channel
<https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLg9Kjjye-m1g_eXpdaifUqLqALLqZqKd4>`_.

If you have any suggestions, feel free to reach out to
`me on Mastodon <https://phpc.social/@derickr>`_ or via `email
<https://derickrethans.nl/who.html>`_.

Business Supporter Scheme and Funding
-------------------------------------

In the last month, one new business supporter signed up:

- `Clever Age <https://www.clever-age.com/>`_.

Besides business support, I also maintain a `Patreon
<https://www.patreon.com/derickr>`_ page, a profile on `GitHub sponsors
<https://github.com/sponsors/derickr>`_, as well as an `OpenCollective
<https://opencollective.com/xdebug>`_ organisation.

If you want to contribute to specific projects, you can find those on the
`Projects <https://xdebug.org/funding>`_ page.

Xdebug Cloud
------------

Xdebug Cloud is the *Proxy As A Service* platform to allow for debugging
in more scenarios, where it is hard, or impossible, to have Xdebug make
a connection to the IDE. It is continuing to operate as Beta release.

Packages start at £49/month, and I have recently introduced a package
for larger companies. This has a larger initial set of tokens, and
discounted extra tokens.

If you want to be kept up to date with Xdebug Cloud, please sign up to
the `mailinglist <https://xdebug.cloud/newsletter>`_, which I will use
to send out an update not more than once a month.
