Friday Night Dinner: Pascor
===========================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 221 Kensington High Street, London, W8 6SG, United Kingdom
   :Date: 2024-04-12 18:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: pascor
   :URL: https://www.pascor.co.uk/
   :Costs: Wine: £40, Food: £25, Desert: £18.5
   :Rating: 3.5
   :Author: Derick Rethans

*From the archive: We visited Pascor in January 2023*

Right on Kensington High Street, near the Design Museum is Pascor. A Levantine
“Fire” restaurant, which we picked as our first place to go to in the new
year.

The restaurant is over two levels, with the lower part smaller, and close to a
chilly door. Luckily we were sat in the roomier first floor, with cosy
decorations. The restaurant is a tapas-y affair, and we shared the Challah
Bread, the Reverse Tabbouleh Salad, a whole roasted aubergine, and the
evening’s special: fish cakes, which were really fish cake croquettes. The
dishes all came with sauces. Although they were fairly simple, they all packed
a great flavour. The dishes came out as they were ready, and they all went
great with the Lebanese red wine that we picked (a Château Ksara Le Prieuré
Rouge 2018).

We also did indulge in desserts. My wife picked a Coconut “Beirut Meets
Bangkok” Malabi, which was lovely sweet and moist with strong hints of
pineapple. I choose the Chocolate Crémeux which was rich and indulgent with a
flavourful blueberry sauce.

My only regret is not picking one (or two!) more dishes to share! Which is all
the more reason to return, and sample some other delicious things that we saw
coming out of the kitchen — perhaps when the weather is a little better.
