Friday Night Dinner: Butcher's Tap and Grill
============================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 25-27 Tryon Street, London SW3 3LG
   :Date: 2024-11-29 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: butchers-tag
   :URL: https://www.thebutcherstapandgrill.co.uk/chelsea
   :Costs: Starters: £9.5; Burgers: £15-£18.50; Beef: £16-£108; Other: £19.50-£42.50; Wines from £42
   :Rating: 5
   :Author: Derick Rethans

For our tenth anniversary we made a trip to Marlow, a small town on the banks
of the river Thames. The town features a suite of gastronomic pleasures. The
two Michelin starred restaurant and Michelin starred pubs are both owned and
operated by chef Tom Kerridge, which made for an amazing gastronomic weekend
getaway. The getaway package also included a voucher for his Butcher's Tap and
Grill, which is both a butcher and… a grill. We got a nice haul of barbecue
meat from there!

Now, a few months later, we had something else to celebrate, and in that time,
a new Butcher's Tap and Grill has opened in Chelsea, in London. 

Although they do plenty of simpler (and cheaper dishes), we selected the Beef
Wellington for two. We were informed in advance that it would take some time
for it to be prepared. This gave us an excellent opportunity to enjoy a
cocktail. I had an Aged Beef Fat Old Fashioned, and my wife a Butcher's Bloody
Mary. Both excellently made.

The Beef Wellington was served a while later, and was served with green beans
and some mashed potato. The latter could have been a bit more generous. There
was also a charred onion, and fried onions on a crispy salad leaf. The
Wellington itself was splendid. Nicely pink in the middle, surrounded by a
moist mushroom duxelles, and covered with a perfectly crisp pastry — no soggy
bottom! The dish was finished with a red wine sauce.

With dinner, we enjoyed a bottle of Bedova, a Georgian red wine. We later found
out it's the same wine we had at the Hand and Flowers in Marlow!

We were still a bit peckish and finished our meal with a pudding. My wife had a
sticky toffee pudding, and I enjoyed an apple crumble.

The Butcher's Tap and Grill is a lovely pub, with great food, although it is
the usual pub fare (the Sunday roast looked great). They also serve great
burgers and speciality cuts. A lot of choice. It isn't a cheap place, but we
thought quite worth the price, and are already thinking of a reason to return!

.. carousel::
   :name: butchers-tag
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/friday-night-dinners/
   :butchers-tag-1: An Old Fashioned and a Bloody Mary
   :butchers-tag-2: Beef Wellington, with trimmings
   :butchers-tag-3: Sticky Toffee Pudding
   :butchers-tag-4: Apple Crumble
