Friday Night Dinner: Café Deco
==============================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 43 Store Street, London WC1E 7DB
   :Date: 2024-11-01 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: cafe-deco
   :URL: https://www.cafe-deco.co.uk
   :Costs: Snacks: £4.5-£12; Starters: £10-£19; Mains: £23-£37; Wines: £39+
   :Rating: 4
   :Author: Derick Rethans

We were supposed to visit Café Deco together last November, but then I ended
up in A&E for the evening, with my wife going on her own. She liked it well
enough then to make a repeat visit for the two of us.

I arrived a little before her, and I was sat in a cosy and small room in the
back, with room for barely 6 patrons. Café Deco does modern British cuisine,
with some forays into French and Indian styles.

For her starter, my wife chose the charcuterie (from the snack section), and I
picked the Mulligatawny (from the starter section). They slightly forgot that
they were supposed to come together, but that was sorted out soon enough. The
soup was thick with lentils and spices, and had a good kick to it. The
charcuterie was flavourful too.

For her main, my wife picked a cicoria, carrot, and cannellini bean stew. The
flavours were deep, the carrots a little crunchy, and the beans nice and
buttery. I selected the pork chop as my main. I don't really often eat pork,
but on this chilly autumn evening it felt the right choice for the moment. It
was served with a pumpkin and radicchio gratin. The chop was nicely seasoned,
and the gratin of roasted vegetables were a nice and slightly sweet
accompaniment.

With our meal we also enjoyed a lovely bottle of a Spanish Granache, and
created little sparkles on the tongue.

And then it was dessert time, for which we both had a scoop of the mint choc
chip ice cream, and a dessert wine to round out the evening.

Café Deco is on the up market side, and not particularly cheap. But it was a
very nice meal indeed.

.. carousel::
   :name: cafe-deco
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :cafe-deco-1: Charcuterie
   :cafe-deco-2: Mullagatawny
   :cafe-deco-3: Cannelli Bean Stew
   :cafe-deco-4: Pork Chop with Roasted Veg
   :cafe-deco-5: Choc Mint Icecream
