Friday Night Dinner: Lokkanta
=============================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 31 Westbourne Grove, London W2 4UA, United Kingdom
   :Date: 2024-01-05 18:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: lokkanta
   :URL: https://lokkantaturkishrestaurant.co.uk/
   :Costs: Food: £45, Drinks: £25
   :Rating: neutral

As first restaurant of the year, we wanted something low-key. Not far from
Paddington station, on Westbourne Grove, there is a whole row of such places.
We settled on Lokkanta, a place that specialises in Turkish food.

We started off with Turkish sausage slices with halloumi, while we were
waiting for our main course. At the same time, we started enjoying our
delicious red wine from Turkey.

The front section of the restaurant features a well ventilated charcoal grill
upon which most of the meats were roasted. In my case, a well cooked and
flavoured lamb shish. My partner picked a Yogurtly Adana, minced grilled lamb
with bread and basted in a tomato sauce and yoghurt.

The service was speedy, and we did not have to wait long. Perhaps that was
mostly because when we arrived at 18:30, there was only other table enjoying
dinner, so we were almost the only customers. When we left, there were a few
more people enjoying their dinner. However, with the restaurant being quite
empty, it perhaps lacked a bit of ambience and the tiled interior made it feel
a little clinical, I think it would be quite different if it was busy with
plenty of hustle and bustle.

In short, the food and wine was good, but the atmosphere was unfortunately
missing.

