Friday Night Dinner: Granger and Co
===================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 105 Marylebone High St, London, W1U 4RS, United Kingdom
   :Date: 2024-04-26 18:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: granger
   :URL: https://grangerandco.com/marylebone
   :Costs: Food £78; Drinks £29
   :Rating: 4
   :Author: Derick Rethans

We went to the branch on Marylebone High Street, in a building previously
occupied by Patisserie Valerie. The front of Granger and Co. is pretty
unassuming, however once inside it really opens up. The rear dining room is a
large modern airy dining space around two floors high, with comfortable
seating and art on the walls. It has a slightly mid-century modern vibe.
Despite the size and height of the room, the acoustics was great, and we could
hear our conversation perfectly.

I arrived a little early and was seated in a corner seat. From there, I could
admire the room while perusing the menu. Once my wife arrived, we quickly
settled on our food choices.

We started with courgette chips with an aioli. The chips (slices of courgette)
had a lovely crisp batter, with juicy courgette inside and arrived sprinkled
with black sesame seeds. We squeezed a few drops of lemon juice over them,
which really brought them to life, especially when dipped in the delicious
aioli.

For the main course, we both selected an onglet steak—medium rare. It was
well-cooked, flavourful, and moist. It was served with some greens, baby
lettuce, and onion rings. We enjoyed a bottle of Tule Rosso wine, which worked
well with the food. 

After our main course, we both fancied a little dessert. Not too much, as we
were mostly full of delicious steak. We settled on a tiramisu, which had good,
slightly boozy coffee flavour and was nice and creamy, and formed a delicious
end to our meal at this Australian restaurant.

.. carousel::
   :name: granger
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :granger-1: Courgette Chips
   :granger-2: Onglet with Vegetables
   :granger-3: Tiramisu
