Friday Night Dinner: Myrtle
===========================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 1a Langton Street, Chelsea, London SW10 0JL, United Kingdom
   :Date: 2024-09-20 18:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Cuisine: Irish
   :Short: myrtle
   :URL: https://www.myrtlerestaurant.com/
   :Costs: Tasting Menu with Wine: £167
   :Rating: 5
   :Author: Derick Rethans

*From the archive: We visited Myrtle in December 2022*

We had a wonderful tasting menu with accompanying wine pairing to celebrate my
birthday (21 again). Myrtle specialises in using Irish ingredients, and
overall the presentation was excellent, without being pretentious, the
ingredients and the food in general was definitely the star.

I don’t think they have a Michelin star yet, but it wouldn't surprise me if
they’d get one soon. The location was a bit odd, as it was very far away from
any sort of public transport or major town centre. It doesn't matter much for
us, as we’re not the type of people that like our valet parking.

The food itself, again, was superb. I particularly liked their additional
black pudding starter, made with *beef* black pudding, instead of the
traditional pork version. All the other dishes were great too. My favourite
was possibly the sea bass with potato scales, and tasty sauce.

As with a tasting menu, we also went with the wine pairing, putting us back
£167/person—excluding service charge (12.5%).

Of course, the reason we ended up here was due to Anna's (the head/executive
chef) appearance as a judge on Master Chef.
