Friday Night Dinner: Cafe Pacifico
==================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 5 Langley Street, Covent Garden, London WC2H 9JA
   :Date: 2024-09-06 18:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: cafe-pacifico
   :URL: https://cafe-pacifico.com/
   :Costs: Starters: £8.50-£12.95; Mains: £15.95-£26; Dessert: £4.75-£7.50
   :Rating: 3
   :Author: Derick Rethans

We had visited Cafe Pacifico a few times in the past already, but we hadn't
been back for a while, nor written up a review.

As it was a warm day, having Mexican food seemed like a good idea, and
starting with a large margarita an even better one.

Cafe Pacifico has fairly standard items on their menu, not nearly as
adventurous as Polanco where we dined a few weeks ago. We started our meal to
share a couple of Empanadas, with a flavourful filling and a subtle chipotle
salsa on the side.

By now our margarita was empty, and we ordered another one while waiting for
our main, for which my wife picked the Chicken Chimichanga with black beans. A
lovely dollop of guacamole and cream was perched on top. I chose the Sea Bass
and King Prawn Tacos. These came in "tempura style" (i.e.: battered and
fried), and were served with grilled pineapple, some red onions, and a
slightly spicy mayonnaise.

After our mains, we were eventually given the dessert menu. We were quite
eying up the churros, but it took so long for staff to return that by that
time we had changed our mind and decided not to have any.

In my opinion, there could have been a little more spice and flavour in most
of the dishes, and service wasn't the speediest. But it's still a reasonable
option for a meal after a hard day of shopping in Covent Garden. We would also
have benefitted from ordering a bottle of margaritas, instead of 4 individual
large glasses.

.. carousel::
   :name: cafe-pasifico
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :cafe-pacifico-1: Classic Margaritas
   :cafe-pacifico-2: Crispy Empenadas
   :cafe-pacifico-3: Chicken Chimichanga with Black Beans
   :cafe-pacifico-4: Sea Bass and King Prawn Tacos
