Friday Night Dinner: St. JOHN
=============================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 98 Marylebone Lane, London W1U 2QA
   :Date: 2024-11-08 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: st-john
   :URL: https://stjohnrestaurant.com/a/restaurants/marylebone
   :Costs: Starters: £5-£14; Small Plates: £10-16.80; Large Plates: £24-£35; Wines from £36
   :Rating: 3
   :Author: Morag Rethans

We went to St. JOHN on a chilly evening. We were sat upstairs directly in
front of the door, and with the aircon also turned on it was verging on cold.
I arrived a bit early and noticed people dining, whilst wearing their outdoor
coats.

St. John, like most restaurants in London these days, operates on a “sharing
concept” which is fine, but doesn't work for all foods, like soup for example.

We shared the venison rissole, which came with an extremely punchy aioli — a
bit heavy on the raw garlic to be honest — which was nice. I then had a
delicious artichoke soup and my husband enjoyed the smoked mackerel, with its
bones in place, as starters. The smoked mackerel was served with some lemon
herbed potatoes, which complemented the flavour of the fish well.

My main, the middle white pork, was underwhelming, with something of the
school dinner about it. The pork was very dry and served on a cold plate with
carrots that were well on the overcooked side. For some reason the entire dish
was also drowned in what appeared to be gravy and oil, which didn't improve or
moisten the dry pork, it just made it tepid and greasy. My husband's hake dish
was better, served with leeks of just the right firmness, and a
not-so-garlicky mayonnaise.

We had a bottle of the house white wine which worked well with all the dishes.

The mains took forever to turn up. The serving staff apologised for this, and
offered us a bag of their madeleines as recompense, which we took away. Those
fresh warm madeleines were absolutely delicious, and by far the best thing
served. We'd go back for those, and the soup… But not for the mains.


.. carousel::
   :name: st-john
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :st-john-1: Venison Rissole with Aioli
   :st-john-2: Smoked Mackerel
   :st-john-3: Artichoke Soup
   :st-john-4: Middle White Pork
   :st-john-5: Hake with Leeks
