Friday Night Dinner: Vinum
==========================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: Rua do Agro 141 (Caves Graham's), 4400-003 Vila Nova de Gaia, Portugal
   :Date: 2024-07-26 18:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: vinum
   :URL: https://vinumatgrahams.com/en/
   :Costs: Starters: €8-€24; Mains: €22-€34; Dessert: €7-€15; Wines: €19-€1250
   :Rating: 4
   :Author: Derick Rethans

After one of our entertainments, a tour and tasting of Graham's port wines, we
had booked a table at Vinum. Situated at Graham's Port Lodge with magnificent
views over Porto, the Douro river, and Vila Nova de Gaia. It had come
recommended by a colleague.

First we were briefly seated outside for a drink with a great view, which was
unexpected (and a little chilly). After this confusion was resolved, we were
seated at a large table, in an airy and bright room, and the great view—they
don't guarantee you get that though. It was also fairly quiet when we got
there, at 18:30.

The restaurant also does a tasting menu (with wine pairing, if you desire),
but we went à la carte again. We forwent our starter, and instead had four
very plumb oysters.

As main course I selected the grilled tuna, which was wrapped in chard and
slightly seared — which is how it is supposed to be. It came with a charred
pepper and garlic mash. My wife picked the "Vace Velha" tataki, which was
served with a roast potato and caramelised onions. The port lodge's owners
also produce Duoro wines, so to go with our meal we selected a bottle of
Altano Reserva 2021, a rich and complex white wine.

We still had some space for desserts, and my wife choose a baked peach with
vanilla ice cream, and I had a pineapple dish. As we were in a port lodge, we
paired this with a Graham's 20 years old Tawny, which was served in a
gigantic 4.5l bottle. The tray that came on, also contained a `port from 1882
<https://www.grahams-port.com/wine/ne-oublie/20>`_, but at €900 a glass, a
little over budget.

The food was good, and the service excellent. The view magnificent, and the
atmosphere relaxing. It was a "bit" of a hike up the hill, but certainly worth
visiting — especially after also having done a tour of their warehouses.


.. carousel::
   :name: vinum
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/friday-night-dinners/
   :vinum-2: Fat Oysters
   :vinum-3: Seared Tuna Wrapped in Chard
   :vinum-4: Vace Velha Tataki
   :vinum-5: Big Bottle of Graham's 20
   :vinum-6: Baked Peach with Vanilla Ice Cream
   :vinum-7: Pineapple Many Ways
