Friday Night Dinner: Empire Empire
==================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 16 All Saints Road, London, W11 1HH, UK
   :Date: 2024-01-19 18:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: empire
   :URL: https://www.empire-empire.restaurant/ 
   :Costs: Food: £50, Drinks: £12
   :Rating: 4
   :Author: Morag Rethans

We visited Empire Empire on a chilly January evening. The restaurant was
fairly quiet but even at 18.30 there were some tables seated and enjoying
their food.

The restaurant features an old fashioned jukebox type vinyl record player
close to the entrance and has a photobooth for some fun snaps should you be so
inclined.

We had a beer each from 40ft Brewery in Hackney, which was lovely. It's great
to see an Indian restaurant branching out from the usual cobra and kingfisher
options. We started with poppadoms and dips, and then I had a well spiced
biryani with incredibly tender lamb falling off the shank and a pastry lid. My
companion really enjoyed her Empire Butter Chicken and a naan bread. This was
not as rich as some butter chicken curries, but was incredibly flavourful with
a nice level of spicing and kick. Unfortunately we were both too full to move
onto try what sounded like tasty desserts from the menu.

Service at Empire Empire was very welcoming and attentive (and quick, but not
rushed) we were out and heading home on the bus about an hour after sitting
down.

.. carousel::
    :name: empire-empire
    :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/friday-night-dinners/
    :empire-empire-1: Butter Chicken
    :empire-empire-3: Lamb Biryani
