Friday Night Dinner: Turmeric Kitchen
=====================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 55 Westbourne Terrace, London W2 3UY, United Kingdom
   :Date: 2024-08-02 18:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: turmeric-kitchen
   :URL: https://turmerickitchen.co.uk
   :Costs: £8-£10; Mains: £9-£15; Wines: £25-£60
   :Rating: 4
   :Author: Derick Rethans

On the hottest Friday of the year (so far) we found ourselves at Turmeric
Kitchen. Situated inside The Chilworth Hotel, a stone throw away from
Paddington station.

It was quite dark inside, with little natural light, and wood panelled walls.
The decor is more fitting for a winter's meal than a bright summer's day.

The menu is fairly varied, with some traditional dishes such as Murgh Makhani
(Butter Chicken) and Biryanis, but there are also some more interesting dishes
— and an "around the world" section including burgers, fish and chips, and
steak.

As a starter, we shared the Avocado Bombs, spicy smashed avocado with mustard
seats and deep-fried, like bitterballen. They were served with a beetroot
chutney and a pomegranate seed. A tasty appetiser.

As my main meal, my wife ordered the aforementioned Murgh Makhani, with some
plain naans on the side. The curry was a little spicy, which I hadn't expected
for a butter chicken. But it wasn't overpowering and left a nice warmth in the
mouth. I opted for the Laal Maas, a slow cooked spicy lamb curry. I paired
that with a pilau rice. The curry was tender and had just the right amount of
heat.

Normally we would have had a beer with curry, but the selection was poor.
There were only small bottles of macro brewery beers with ridiculous prices.
We had a bottle of Sauvignon Blanc instead. A bit odd, but it worked fairly
well.

To conclude our meal, we finished with a sorbet — my wife had the raspberry,
and I had the mango. The serving (one scoop) was disappointingly small for the
price.

After having refreshed, we went back outside into the heat for some exiting
beers at `"The Bear" <https://www.thebearpaddington.com/>`_, a nearby pub.


.. carousel::
   :name: turmeric-kitchen
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/friday-night-dinners/
   :turmeric-kitchen-1: Avocado Bombs
   :turmeric-kitchen-2: Murgh Makhani
   :turmeric-kitchen-3: Laal Maas
   :turmeric-kitchen-4: Icecreams
