Friday Night Dinner: Spagnoletti
================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 23 Euston Road, London NW1 2SD
   :Date: 2024-10-25 18:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Cuisine: Italian
   :Short: spagnoletti
   :URL: https://www.spagnoletti.co.uk/
   :Costs: Snacks: £5.5; Small dishes: £6-£13; Mains: £19-£40
   :Rating: 3
   :Author: Derick Rethans

Spagnoletti is an Italian style restaurant operating with a sharing dishes
concept. We visited this in the middle of October, when it was reasonably
busy.

Just like other sharing dishes places, they recommend a certain number of
plates per person. In Spagnoletti's case, three to four. As part of this
concept, most of the dishes also come at random moments.

We weren't especially hungry, and the waiter was surprised that we did not
order the recommended amount of plates. However, for our starters we ordered
the wild mushrooms and truffle arancini, with a whipped goat's cheese, and the
suckling pig and black pudding croquettes. The arancini stood out. They had a
perfectly crisp and seasoned coating and a smooth mushroom filling, and the
whipped goats cheese was both delicious alone and as an accompaniment to the
arancini. The croquettes sadly were a little underwhelming, both in terms of
flavour and the amount of filling.

For her main course, my wife picked the burrata, which was served with
butternut squash and chicory leaves. I chose the risotto with a pulled shin of
beef and bone marrow. The burrata showed up first, and we soon realised that
the warm risotto wasn't coming until the cold burrata had been eaten. The
burrata with butternut squash, with a few bits of mandarin was a good
combination, with the slightly bitter chicory rounding it off. The risotto,
once it arrived half an hour later, was quite wet, with the rice on top of the
pulled beef and bone marrow, and had an odd “gravy” sitting with the meat. It
had depth, but it was a little strange to eat… and overall far too wet

Because the burrata came before the risotto, we didn't really get to eat at
the same time, even though we had mentioned that these would be our main
dishes. Awkward. Luckily, they did have a couple of interesting beers from the
Portobello microbrewery that we enjoyed during the waiting time.

Sometimes, a place that does "sharing dishes" works fine, but in this case, it
fell a little flat on its face.

.. carousel::
   :name: spagnoletti
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :spagnoletti-1: Wild Mushrooms Arancini
   :spagnoletti-2: Suckling Pig Croquettes
   :spagnoletti-3: Burrata with Butternut Squash
   :spagnoletti-4: Risotto with Beef Shin
