Friday Night Dinner: Le Vieux Comptoir
======================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 26-28 Moxon Street, London W1U 4EU
   :Date: 2024-12-27 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: le-vieux-comptoir
   :URL: https://www.levieuxcomptoir.co.uk/
   :Costs: Starters: £8-£19; Mains: £14-38; Wines from £32
   :Rating: 4.5
   :Author: Derick Rethans

Situated at the end of a side-street of Marylebone High Street, Le Vieux
Comptoir has been serving as a wine shop and restaurant for more than a
decade. We first went many years ago, and have returned several times, with
friends and family, as well as just having dinner a deux. However, we've not
been recently, and so hadn't written a review. We also fancied seeing if it
was still as good as we remembered. .

In the run-up to Christmas, we decided to do a re-visit to Le Vieux Comptoir.
Upstairs is the wine shop, where you can get a bottle to take down into the
restaurant if you wish. But you can also select your wine for dinner
downstairs in the cosy restaurant. I felt like a little celebration was in
order, so we started with a lovely glass of Cremant, served with some bread
and homemade butter, while waiting for our starters.

For the starters, my wife went with the cheeseboard; two slices of four
different cheeses, served at the perfect temperature, allowing the flavour of
the cheese to come through. I selected the snails in parsley and garlic
butter. I have always found snails interesting enough, but would only ever
have it at a French place.

For our mains I ordered the confit duck. Sometimes that is exactly was looking
forwards to, and in this case the whole week leading up to our visit. I
remembered it being excellent on previous visits, and this time was no
exception. It was served with roast potatoes, and cabbage leaves with a
dressing. The same side dishes accompanied my wife's onglet steak. This was
served medium rare, and was splendid. With our mains, we also enjoyed a glass
each of a full-bodied red wine.

We still had some space for pudding, and we enjoyed a sharing platter of
enormous profiteroles while sipping on a Sauternes dessert wine. It was a
great meal, and quite indulgent. Something to do once in a while!

.. carousel::
   :name: le-vieux-comptoir
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/friday-night-dinners/
   :le-vieux-comptoir-1: Snails
   :le-vieux-comptoir-2: Cheese Board
   :le-vieux-comptoir-3: Confit de Canard with Sides
   :le-vieux-comptoir-4: Onglet Steak
   :le-vieux-comptoir-6: Mountain of Profiterols
