Friday Night Dinner: Volta do Mar
===========================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 100 Draycott Avenue, Chelsea, London SW3 3AD, UK
   :Date: 2024-02-09 18:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: votla-do-mar
   :URL: https://www.voltadomar.co.uk/
   :Costs: Cocktails: £29, Food: £70, Drinks: £17
   :Rating: 4
   :Author: Derick Rethans

We had been to Volta do Mar before, before they moved from their old location
in Covent Garden, to their new location in Chelsea.

The restaurant specialises in Portuguese food, including cuisines from
countries along Portuguese trade routes.

While we were reading the menus to select our dishes, we enjoyed a cheeky
cocktail. I had a take on a Caipirinha, spruced up with blueberries. And my
partner had a Martini with added spiced pear.

After making our choices, we found out that beyond the dishes on the menu,
they also have a short set of specials. This also meant that their Iberico
Pork Bafassa was replaced with an Iberico Pork burger, with added foie gras.
As we don't really want to eat that, it meant that my partner had to change to
a different main.

In the end, we choose to share a Sardine Pâte and Sourdough snack, and Ham
Hock and Chorizo Croquettes. The pâte was smooth and flavourful, and spread
excellently on the sourdough. The croquettes full of porky goodness. The other
starters on the menu also sounded appetizing.

For our main, we picked their Piri Piri Chicken, served with chips. The
chicken was delicious, moist and well spiced and the pot of sauce that came
with it was ideal to dip the chicken and chips into.

We had a glass each of their house wine with our main, I had red, but my
partner had the white, both wines were lovely and worked nicely with the food.

We enjoyed our meal at Volta do Mar. The food was great and the atmosphere
relaxing, and the staff attentive. It certainly was no Nando's!

.. carousel::
    :name: volta-do-mar
    :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/friday-night-dinners/
    :volta-do-mar-1: Blueberry Caipirinha
    :volta-do-mar-2: Sardine Pâte with Sourdough
    :volta-do-mar-3: Ham Hock and Chorizo Croquettes
    :volta-do-mar-4: Piri Piri Chicken
