Friday Night Dinner: Ma Petite Jamaica
======================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 4-6 Inverness Street, London, NW1 7HJ, UK
   :Date: 2023-12-29 18:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: ma-petite-jamaica
   :URL: https://www.mapetitejamaica.com/
   :Costs: Food: £65, Drinks: £25
   :Rating: positive

What do you need on a cold and dark winter evening? Exactly, a bit of tropical
warmth. Our booking was a little last minute, as we hadn't really thought
about arranging something for the last Friday of the year. My wife, who often
takes the lead in picking our Friday evening restaurant, suggested this
Jamaican place in Camden, not too far from where we live.

We arrived to find the dining room partially full, with Jamaican musing
playing and (fake) palm trees. It gave a happy and homely feel to the dining
room.

I had never had Jamaican food, so decided that I wanted to try the staples. As
my starter I picked the ackee and salt fish, which was served with fried
dumplings. My wife chose the chickpea and pumpkin curry. We also decided to
share a portion of the jerk chicken spring rolls. All three small plates were
very flavourful. With enough hints of scotch bonnets to add a kick, but
nothing too overpowering. The dumplings were great for dipping up the sauces.

Because we felt we needed to escape from the cold, we enjoyed a pair of
Jamaican Mule cocktails, with our starters, and later mains. The first set was
half price as it was still happy hour! There were also a number of Jamaican
beers on offer, with a Red Stripe on tap.

I selected the curried goat with rise and peas as my main course. My wife
wanted to order a wrap, which they were no longer serving, although they were
on the menu. She ended up with their vegetable curry with a roti. Both were
excellent.

Our only regret was probably ordering too much food. One and a half starter,
and a full main per person was certainly too much. But that's not the worst
problem to have if your dinner was so tasty.

.. carousel::
    :name: ma-petite-jamaica
    :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/friday-night-dinners/
    :ma-petite-jamaica-1: Fried Dumpling, with Ackee and Saltfish
    :ma-petite-jamaica-2: Curried Goat
