Friday Night Dinner: Polanco
============================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 43 Chamberlayne Road, London NW10 3NB, United Kingdom
   :Date: 2024-08-09 18:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: polanco
   :URL: https://polancomex.co.uk/
   :Costs: Tacos/Small Plates: £7-£12; Cocktails: £10-£12; Wines: £23-£36
   :Rating: 4
   :Author: Derick Rethans

We have been to this location before, back when it was called Morso, which has
now moved to St. John's Wood. There are a few other restaurants next door,
which we might also try at some point.

It was a very warm evening, and my wife had arrived much earlier than our
table was booked for. She'd ordered a margarita to spend the time, and
"convinced" me to get one too. One showed up right when I entered the cosy
restaurant. We were on the earlier side and it was mostly empty.

Polanco serves contemporary Mexican food, and their menu consists of tacos and
small plates to share. We ordered baja fish tacos, a quesadilla rustica, green
chicken enchiladas, and tortilla chips with guacamole to enjoy while we were
waiting.

With our food, we also got a bottle of white wine. Usually we would probably
have had beer, but their beer selection was really only the boring macro
lagers.

The guacamole was well-made, and a little spicy. Smooth, but still with some
crunchy bits. The green chicken enchiladas were doused in a slightly spicy
green sauce. A dollop of cream on top smoothed things out. My favourite were
the fish tacos — crispy fried fish, served with chipotle mayonnaise and
habanero sauce, and topped with pickled cabbage. The rustic part of the
quesadilla consisted of molten cheese, shopped cherry tomatoes, a habanero
sauce, and some cream.

All the dishes were a little spicy, but not so much that it overpowered. By
the time we were done with our meal, the restaurant was buzzing with nearly
every table occupied.

.. carousel::
   :name: polanco
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/friday-night-dinners/
   :polanco-1: Tortilla Chips with Guacamole
   :polanco-2: Green Chicken Enchiladas
   :polanco-3: Fish Tacos with Pickled Cabbage
   :polanco-4: Quesadilla Rustica
