Friday Night Dinner: 50 Kalò
============================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 7 Northumberland Ave, London WC2N 5BY
   :Date: 2024-04-05 18:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Cuisine: Italian
   :Short: 50-kalo
   :URL: https://www.50kalo.it/ciro__salvo.php
   :Costs: Food: £40, Drinks: £27
   :Rating: 3.5
   :Author: Derick Rethans

For tonight's meal, we walked to 50 Kalò, a busy restaurant just off Trafalgar
Square, and situated in The Grand Hotel. Although you don't notice that it’s a
restaurant attached to a hotel.

50 Kalò is a pizza restaurant and an off-shoot of their original Naples-based
restaurant. It came with great reviews, so we punted on it. When we got there,
we were quickly seated at a small table, with my chair nearly touching a chair
on the table behind me. I am not keen on being boxed in like this, and despite
the small gap, the staff still pushed through the gap between me and the diner
behind, which was quite irritating. Fortunately, my wife spotted another free
table without this constraint, and we moved.

The menu is full of Neapolitan pizza—in fact, that's what this restaurant
specialises in. I selected a Prosciutto Cotto—roasted ham on a white base,
with shavings of aged Parmesan. My wife chose the Del Monaco, which had a
traditional tomato base, and came topped with salami. The pizzas were big and
freshly cooked, arriving quickly. The pizza crust was slightly toasted and
lovely and chewy, but in my opinion, the base could have been a little
crispier. The shavings of fresh parmesan also added something extra to the
overall flavour.

The restaurant also has its "own" beer, (three varieties) brewed in
collaboration with Birra Amarcord, from Rimini in Italy. We both started with
a "Forte," and during our meal, we enjoyed the other two, (a blonde and a red)
as well. The beers were nice and complemented the pizza, but whilst tasty,
they weren’t the most exciting beers.

Although we thought we were full from our large pizza, our waitress convinced
us to have a special Easter-related dessert. The almond and orange cake was
delicious, nice and fluffy, with a lovely freshness from the orange. It was a
fitting end to the meal.

All in all, it was a reasonable meal out. The pizzas were nice, the service
was quick, and the interior was lovely. This would be a good place to eat
after a day of tourist-ing, and avoiding the nearby chain restaurants.

.. carousel::
    :name: 50-kalo
    :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
    :kalo-1: Prosciutto Cotto
	:kalo-2: Del Monaco
	:kalo-3: Almond and Orange tarte
