Friday Night Dinner: Demartino
==============================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 196-198 Great Portland Street, London W1W 5QF
   :Date: 2024-12-13 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: demartino
   :URL: https://www.demartinorestaurant.com/
   :Costs: Starters: £10-£18; Mains: £13.90-£37.50; Wines from £26.50
   :Rating: 4
   :Author: Derick Rethans

Styling themselves as a New York neighbourhood Italian restaurant, Demartino
is situated on Great Portland Street. When we visited it was busy, with
elderly couples, a bunch of friends, and a birthday party. Very much a low-key
neighbourhood restaurant. Unfortunately, that meant we had a small table right
in the middle of the restaurant, which meant we were on something of a busy
thoroughfare with serving staff and fellow diners moving around close to us.

For our starters we picked courgette fries and arancini, or rather, one big
arancino. The courgette fries were nicely seasoned, and were served in a cone
— just like Belgian fries. The big arancino was served in a spicy sauce, that
had a very nice strong tomato flavour.

As her main, my wife selected a ravioli filled with ricotta and spinach,
served in a lovely butter and sage sauce. I had the wild mushroom risotto,
with the rice just a little al dente. A decent sprinkling of Parmesan added
the right level of cheesiness.

We had a lovely bottle of red wine to go with our excellent meal. The service
at Demartino was good, and the atmosphere lively.

The only downside to our visit was the position of the table we were seated
at, so if we returned we'd try to be seated elsewhere (almost anywhere else).

.. carousel::
   :name: demartino
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :demartino-1: Courgette Fries
   :demartino-2: Arancino
   :demartino-3: Wild Mushroom Risotto
   :demartino-4: Spinach and Ricotta Ravioli
