Friday Night Dinner: Dakota
===========================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 8 Russell Street, LS1 5RN, Leeds
   :Date: 2025-05-23 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: dakota
   :URL: https://dakotahotels.co.uk/leeds/grill/
   :Costs: Starters: £10-18; Mains: £20-£50; Grill: £35-£85; Wines from £36
   :Rating: 2.5
   :Author: Morag Rethans

On a warm Friday night in May, whilst visiting Leeds we ate at Dakota. Not
knowing Leeds, we booked this place on the strength of lots of positive online
reviews.

The restaurant is located in the basement of a hotel, and is gloomily dark.
I'm not a fan of massive strip lighting in restaurants, but I do think the
lights could have been turned up a bit. We note that online photos do show the
restaurant more lit up.

The service was efficient. However, the waitress we had serving us, should
work on making guests feel less "patronised" when engaging in small talk, for
example when commenting on a customer's wine choice, or when discussing the
purpose of their visit to Leeds.

We started with what was a “complimentary bread with a tomato, goats cheese
and mozzarella dipping sauce" — apparently this was the favourite dish of the
waitress. It was tasty enough, but perhaps a little heavy on the over-reduced
tomato purée flavour.

The food was fine, the cod with prawns on a finely chopped red pepper base was
fine, and my companions lamb was well cooked. A single side of soy glazed
tenderstem broccoli (rather than the "recommended" 2 or 3 sides) was more than
sufficient for us.

Overall I wouldn't recommend Dakota or revisit if I was in Leeds again. There
are plenty of other options, which, in hindsight would have been better.

.. carousel::
   :name: dakota
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/friday-night-dinners/
   :dakota-1: Bread with Cheesy Tomato Sauce
   :dakota-2: Lamb Rump with Pave Potatoes
   :dakota-3: Cod with Prawn
   :dakota-4: Soy Sauce Glazed Tenderstem Broccoli
