Friday Night Dinner: De Ruif
============================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: Heuvenseweg 6, Rheden, Netherlands
   :Date: 2025-08-01 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: de-ruif
   :URL: https://restaurantderuif.nl/
   :Costs: €8.50-€16.50; Mains: €24-€36; Toetjes: €9-€13; Set Menu: €39.50
   :Rating: 4
   :Author: Derick Rethans

De Ruif (The Hay Rack) is situated at the edge of one of the Netherlands'
national parks, de Veluwezoom. It's popular with walkers, but in the evening
it is more of a traditional restaurant. They serve mostly French cuisine, but
also some local classics.

We visited not with just the two of us, but also with my parents to celebrate
a birthday. We selected our dishes from the three course set-menu.

My wife chose a seventies classic, the shrimp cocktail. In this case, it came
with brown shrimps instead of the more usual prawns. It was well-dressed with
Marie Rose sauce, and came with some lettuce and a lemon to squeeze. For my
starter, I picked the "watermelon" carpaccio, although it came with three
types of melon (watermelon, cantaloupe, and honeydew). The chunks were served
on top of long strands of flavourful and thinly sliced parma ham.

After our main, we both opted to go with the swordfish. This was served with a
red risotto, a dressing, grilled baby tomatoes, and some vegetables. The
portion sizes were on the larger side for both starter and main, but we still
found some space for pudding.

I selected the Aperol Spritz Sorbet, which turned out to be massive. But it
was all the right kinds of sweet and bitter and juicy. My wife chose the
Limoncello Tiramisu, served with a strawberry on top. This dessert was creamy,
light, and refreshing.

After all these courses, we were properly satisfied. We will likely be back,
as there are not too many options in the area for dining out. But perhaps we
won't have three courses again.

.. carousel::
   :name: de-ruif
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/friday-night-dinners/
   :de-ruif-1: Shrimp Cocktail
   :de-ruif-2: Watermelon Carpaccio
   :de-ruif-3: Swordfish
   :de-ruif-4: Aperol Spritz Sorbet
   :de-ruif-5: Limoncello Tiramisu
