Friday Night Dinner: Ottolenghi
===============================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 32 Rosslyn Hill, London, NW3 1NH, United Kingdom
   :Date: 2025-12-05 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: fnd
   :Cuisine: Mediterranean
   :Short: ottolenghi
   :URL: https://ottolenghi.co.uk/pages/locations/hampstead
   :Costs: Nibbles: £5.5-£7; Sharing Dishes: £13.3-£19.5; Pudding from £7; Wines from £36
   :Rating: 4
   :Author: Derick and Morag Rethans

Ottolenghi has several restaurants in London, but we enjoyed dinner in their
Hampstead venue on a cheeky Monday to celebrate.

The menu doesn't have starters or mains, but only nibbles and sharing dishes,
which was made abundantly clear by our waiter. However, there is a selection
of cold and warm sharing dishes which by necessity are served in two waves:
the cold ones, and the warm ones — nicely separating them in starters and main
courses. Did I mention everything is meant to share?

We started our meal with a crisp glass of pét-nat, a naturally sparkling wine,
while munching on za'atar pita chips with a yoghurt and red chilli dip.

As our starter (sorry, cold sharing dish), we chose the burrata with marinated
mandarins. The freshness of the mandarins worked well with the burrata, and
the rocket added some extra pepperiness.

We picked our mains as non-sharing, but ended up sharing a fair bit anyway. My
wife picked the Adana lamb kebabs with babaganoush and picked onions. These
were nicely spiced, with the babaganoush adding the necessary moisture. I
selected the crispy chicken 'chop', which was served with a tahini and walnut
sauce. The chicken 'chop' had a nice crispy skin, and the sauce was excellent.
The portion size of the chicken dish was somewhat larger than the
lamb kebabs.

With our mains we enjoyed a lovely bottle of red wine, a Garnacha from
Navarra. At the end, we went back and forth about ordering pudding. We ended
up settling on sharing a Bakewell tart. With crispy edges, a nicely sour
filling, and some pistachio nuts sprinkled on top.

We enjoyed Ottolenghi, but we're not in agreement on the ambience. Although we
both found it relaxed and welcoming, I also found it a little pretentious.
Particularly the "cold and warm sharing dishes" shtick instead of the starters
and mains they would have been in other restaurants. All of the dishes were
really tasty, well presented, and the staff were great. We would return.

.. carousel::
   :name: ottolenghi
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :ottolenghi-1: Pita Chips with Yoghurt
   :ottolenghi-2: Burrata with Marinated Mandarins
   :ottolenghi-3: Crispy Chicken "Chop"
   :ottolenghi-4: Adana Lamb Kebabs
   :ottolenghi-5: Bakewell Tart
