Friday Night Dinner: Soutine
============================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 60 St. John's Wood High Street, NW8 7SH, London
   :Date: 2025-04-18 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Cuisine: French
   :Short: soutine
   :URL: https://www.soutine.co.uk/
   :Costs: Starters: £13.25-£16.25; Mains: £17.50-£38.50; Wines from £35
   :Rating: 3.5
   :Author: Morag Rethans

We booked Soutine a little later than normal, but there was no problem for us
to get a table on a warm and sunny Friday evening in St John’s Wood. When we
arrived and were shown to our table, I immediately thought that it had a
resemblance of Brasserie Zedel, near Piccadilly Circus. Which ended up making
sense as it has the same owner.

The interior consists of mostly wooden panelling, and loads of mirrors, giving
the inside an airy, but cosy atmosphere.

We started with the smoked salmon crumpet for me, and a single oyster for my
husband. We ordered a carafe of Chardonnay to share. For the main I had the
rather calorific souffle suisse, which was delicious, but perhaps not
something to have too often! As a consolation, it did come with a salad.My
husband had the roast lamb, which was very tender, and was served with a
mushroom flower and some rocket. With that, he had a separate class of Côte du
Rhone.

We were originally expecting to be able to order off the set menu which
according to the website should have been available, but alas was not offered.

The food and ambience was nice, but we couldn't quite shake off that we were
by far the youngest in the restaurant!

.. carousel::
   :name: soutine
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :soutine-1: Oyster with Trimmings
   :soutine-2: Smoked Salmon Crumpet
   :soutine-3: Roast Lamb
   :soutine-4: Souffle Suisse
