Friday Night Dinner: The Jones Family Kitchen
=============================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 7-8 Eccleston Yards, London SW1W 9AZ
   :Date: 2025-09-05 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: jones-kitchen
   :URL: https://jonesfamilykitchen.co.uk/
   :Costs: Starters: £7.00-£19.50; Mains: £16.50-£55.00; Pudding: ~£9.00; Sides: ~£7.50; Wines from £30
   :Rating: 3.5
   :Author: Derick Rethans

This restaurant is located in Eccleston Yards, a recently renovated
pedestrian-only historic courtyard, not far from Victoria Station. The Jones
Family Kitchen is, what might be described as a “steak focused restaurant”
but they also have a few other options for those avoiding red meat.  As well
as a cosy dining area inside, there is a large outside terrace, where on this
warm and sunny evening a lot of people were enjoying their meals and drinks.

To start, we enjoyed some cheese polenta balls, which were served with a spicy
mayonnaise. These were soft and crispy in all the right ways, and the mayo
serving was very generous… so generous that we were able to enjoy it with the
chips we had with our main course.

For our mains, we both chose the same cut of meat, a 10 oz sirloin steak,
medium rare. I opted for no condiments, but my wife added some béarnaise
sauce. On the side, we shared a portion of triple cooked chips, and green
beans. The steaks were perfectly cooked, well rested, and slightly charred on
the outside, with the fat mostly rendered. The beans were nice and soft, and
the chips crispy on the outside. Some of those chips got dipped in the spicy
mayonnaise mentioned earlier. We also enjoyed a bottle of Rioja, which
accompanied our steaks nicely.

Afterwards, we fancied a little dessert. I had a scoop of apple sorbet, and my
wife picked a rhubarb ice cream that tasted remarkably like peach ice
cream—still tasty though.

It's a bit on the pricier side if you go for steak, but the food was of
excellent quality, and the service attentive. There are several other
interesting looking restaurants around the same courtyard, so we might be back
for those too.

.. carousel::
   :name: jones-kitchen
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :jones-kitchen-1: Cheese Polenta Balls
   :jones-kitchen-2: Sirloin Steak
   :jones-kitchen-3: Beans and Chips
   :jones-kitchen-4: Sorbet and Ice Cream
