Friday Night Dinner: Theo Randall
=================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 1 Hamilton Place, Park Lane, London, W1J 7QY, United Kingdom
   :Date: 2025-11-07 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Cuisine: Italian
   :Short: theo-randall
   :URL: https://www.theorandall.com/
   :Costs: Tasting Menu with Wine Pairing: £75
   :Rating: 4
   :Author: Derick Rethans

You can find Theo Randall on the ground floor of the posh Intercontinental
Hotel on Park Lane. The restaurant itself is elegant, but not pretentious. On
Friday evening there is live music. We were seated at the other end of the
spacious dining room, which meant being able to enjoy both the music and
having a chat.

Besides their à la carte menu, they also have a monthly "regional tasting
menu" consisting of five courses, where three of them are paired with wine. We
opted for this tasting menu, which in October was from Umbria.

We started our "journey" with an Umbria cocktail, which was fruity with a
slice of dried strawberry as a decoration. With this, we were enjoying some
focaccia and a bruschetta, which was topped with a flavourful roasted tomato
salsa.

Our first course, the Antipasto, consisted of beef carpaccio with marinated
artichokes and pecorino cheese. Strangozzi (think square cut wheat spaghetti),
serviced with Italian sausage and a white wine and black truffle creamed was
the Primo course. The pasta had a good bite to it, and the sausage was nicely
cubed. The sauce bound everything together.

Our Secondo, or "meat" course, was roasted guinea fowl breasts with pancetta
and a sweet wine. It was served with squash purée under the crisp skin, and
laid on a bed of lentils and some braised greens. The guinea fowl was still
moist, and the skin crisp. The textures worked very well together.

We finished the evening with Dolce, a chocolate and hazelnut cake with a Vin
Santo gelato. The cake was rich and on the denser side, but the ice cream
offset that. We were a bit cheeky, and enjoyed a glass of dessert wine as well
with this final course.

I believe the menu was good value, as the food was very tasty. The matching
wines accompanied the dishes well. The dishes themselves were well presented,
well cooked, and the whole meal was just the right amount. Perhaps not a
restaurant to go to on a weekly basis, but if you have something to celebrate,
or perhaps a fancier date night, it's a great spot, close to the centre of
London.

.. carousel::
   :name: theo-randall
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :theo-randall-1: Focaccia and Bruschetta
   :theo-randall-2: Beef Carpaccio with Marinated Artichokes
   :theo-randall-3: Strangozzi with Italian Sausage
   :theo-randall-4: Guinea Fowl Breasts with Pancetta
   :theo-randall-5: Chocolate and Hazelnut Cake with Vin Santo Gelato
