Friday Night Dinner: Le Garrick
===============================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 10-12 Garrick Street, WC2E 9BH, London
   :Date: 2025-07-04 15:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: le-garrick
   :URL: https://www.legarrick.co.uk/
   :Costs: Starters: £8-£16; Mains: £17-£29.50; Wines from £25; Pre- / Post-Theatre Menu: £19.75/£25.50
   :Rating: 4
   :Author: Derick Rethans

We have been to Le Garrick several times over the last decade. Once for my
birthday, where I learned that Cassoulet is based on beans, not my favourite
category of food. Although it is not a fine-dining restaurant, the meals we
had there, have always been solid, albeit a little rustic.

They also do a pre- and post-theatre menu, which is what brought us here this
time. With a play in the early evening, a post-theatre menu is often good
value, and usually speedily served.

We both opted for a main and dessert. My wife chose the Onglet steak with a
Béarnaise sauce, and I had the Moules Frites. While waiting for our meals to
arrive, we enjoyed a lovely glass of Cremant — we had something to celebrate.

The steak was juicy and served with a good amount of fries. My Moules were
well-prepared in a rich and flavourful broth. The accompanying fries were
excellent for dipping into this bowl of flavour.

We picked the same dessert, the Tarte au Citron (lemon tart). This came served
with lovely dollop of cream.

Le Garrick was reliable as always, and after our meal we walked to our
theatre. If you're in the neighbourhood for a similar reason, Le Garrick is a
safe choice, with good food.

.. carousel::
   :name: le-garrick
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/friday-night-dinners/
   :le-garrick-1: Moules Frites
   :le-garrick-2: Onglet Steak
   :le-garrick-3: Tarte au Citron
