Friday Night Dinner: Sicily
===========================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 2a Elizabeth Street, SW1W 9RB, London
   :Date: 2025-06-27 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: sicily
   :URL: https://www.eatatsicily.com/
   :Costs: Starters: £10.25-£12.50; Mains: £14.00-£19.75; Wines from £23.50
   :Rating: 4
   :Author: Derick Rethans

After a trip, we wanted something more relaxed and non-fussy. Sicily, close to
Victoria Station, seemed to fit the bill on a warm summer evening. My wife
commented that the restaurant had been here for many years—and like Chakra a
few weeks ago—she’d walked past many times without ever visiting. Something we
were rectifying.

We were seated upstairs, and when we arrived, it wasn't very busy with only
two other parties seated in the upstairs area. However, within half an hour,
the place was full, with nearly every table occupied. Despite the influx of
diners, the service was attentive and speedy.

For her dinner, my wife chose the Fiorentina pizza, with tomato, fior di latte
mozzarella, spinach, oregano, free range egg, and flaked parmigiano reggiano.
The crust was crispy, the spinach wasn't overly wilted and dry, the cheese
flakes across the top were generous, and the pizza wasn't too humungous
overall. I picked the Rustichelle Salsiccia pasta—twisted pasta with pork and
fennel sausage, with mushrooms, saffron, and cream. The sausage is what gave
it the flavour, and the pasta and mushrooms the texture.

We both had a glass of their Sicily Pilsner on draught to enjoy with our
meals, which paired well with both our dishes. We decided against dessert.

The price for the meal was very reasonable, the ambiance great, and the food
well worth going back for again.

.. carousel::
   :name: sicily
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/friday-night-dinners/
   :sicily-1: Rustichelle Salsiccia Pasta
   :sicily-2: Fiorentina Pizza
   :sicily-3: Sicily Pilsner
