Friday Night Dinner: Richoux
============================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 14-15 Langham Place, London, W1B 2QS, United Kingdom
   :Date: 2025-09-26 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: richoux
   :URL: https://www.richoux.co.uk/
   :Costs: Starters: £13-£16; Mains: £16.5-£44; Wines from ~£40
   :Rating: 3
   :Author: Derick Rethans

Richoux is a French bistro restaurant that used to be situated on Piccadilly
near the Ritz, but they've now moved to Regent Street, next to the BBC
Broadcasting House.

We went when they still hadn't quite opened yet, their so-called "soft
opening".

I choose, as one of my favourite starters, the Escargots de Bourgogne: snails
in a pesto-like sauce. The sauce was fairly oily, and I sort of wished I'd had
some bread with that. My wife had the Rillette de Saumon,  a nice enough (but
not overly exciting) salmon pate with some toasted bread.

As her main, my wife picked the Steak Frites with a Béarnaise sauce. She
ordered it medium rare. It was well cooked and well seasoned, but not too well
rested. I had a Filet de Saumon, which was also quite nice, but nothing
particularly very special. With our main, we also had a bottle of wine. Wines
start at around £40.

In the end, we thought the meal was a little disappointing and on the pricier
side. One thing that was useful, is that because they were in their "soft
opening" mode, all the food was half price.

I don't think we're going back to Richoux. But if you're in a mood for some
French food, near Regent's Street, then they'll be able to provide you with a
solid meal. To be honest, if you really want French food, you’d be better
heading to `Le Vieux Comptior
<https://friday-night-dinners.co.uk/le-vieux-comptoir-ix9>`_, which isn't very
far away in Marylebone, or `Le Garrick
<https://friday-night-dinners.co.uk/le-garrick-ji3>`_ in Covent Garden.

.. carousel::
   :name: richoux
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :richoux-1: Snails in a Pesto Sauce
   :richoux-2: Salmon Rillette
   :richoux-3: Salmon Filet
   :richoux-4: Steak Frites
