Friday Night Dinner: OPSO
=========================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 10 Paddington Street, W1U 5QL, London
   :Date: 2025-07-25 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: opso
   :URL: https://www.opso.co.uk/
   :Costs: £9-£19; Mains: £16-£68; Wines from £58
   :Rating: 3
   :Author: Derick Rethans

OPSO styles themselves as a modern Greek restaurant. They're based just off
Marylebone High Street. We first ate here when they opened, just over a decade
ago, and recalled that experience positively, and as it was a lovely warm
summer evening, perfect for some Greek food we thought we'd return.

It seems however, that in the last decade, the prices had gone up
significantly. Wine starting at £58 is a bit of a joke really… but it's
Marylebone, so perhaps the locals don't notice or care? Instead we settled on
some beers from Greek breweries that we hadn't tried yet.

We were not overly hungry, and as a result decided on a slightly lighter meal.
We started with a duo of souvlaki kebabs, which were served on top of a
slightly charred pitta bread. They were dressed with a dollop of yoghurt and
red onions. With the kebabs, we also had some tzatziki and slightly spicy
flatbreads. The tzatziki was fresh and the flatbreads crispy.

For our mains, we shared the slightly seared tuba, which was dressed with
sugar snap peas, tomato, mint, and capers. This combination really worked
well, and the tuna was spot on. I always think that tuna is better mostly raw,
but seared on the outside To accompany the tuna, we also shared a spanakorizo
— spinach, rice, and goat's curd, baked in the oven.

The food was delicious, and the atmosphere lively, but we did think that
perhaps some value has been lost along the way.

.. carousel::
   :name: opso
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :opso-1: Souvlaki Kebabs
   :opso-2: Tzatziki
   :opso-3: Seared Tuna
   :opso-4: Spanakorizo
   :opso-5: Slightly Spicy Flatbreads
