Friday Night Dinner: Casa do Frango
===================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 4 Sir Simon Milton Sq, London SW1E 5DJ, United Kingdom
   :Date: 2025-09-12 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: casa-do-frango
   :URL: https://casadofrango.co.uk/locations/victoria
   :Costs: Small Plates: £6-£14; Grill: £14-£34; Sides: £5-£8; Dessert: £3-£8; Wines from £31
   :Rating: 2.5
   :Author: Morag Rethans

This restaurant is situated in the new-ish development Sir Simon Milton
Square, close to Victoria Station. We've visited this area previously when we
dined at the Rail House Victoria, and at Camino Victoria, which are both close
by however on a warm summer evening we decided to go for some Portuguese
cuisine.

Casa del Frango, specialise in Portuguese grill dishes. We started with a pair
of Salgadinhos, crispy filled empanada pastry with kale, mushroom, and
caramelised onions. These were hot and fresh and vanished quite quickly.

For my main course, my husband chose the lamb chops, which were also nicely
grilled and still moist. I picked the beef skewers, which were also well
cooked. Neither of these dishes came with sides, so we ordered some house rice
to go with our mains to make a full meal. Without the rice, we'd likely still
have been hungry.

Even after that, we still liked some dessert, and had one each. I had a Bolo
de Bolocha, a Portuguese biscuit cake with vanilla ice cream and salted
caramel, which was possibly a bit too sweet and creamy overall. And my husband
had a classic Pastel de Nata, a custard tart. This came served with cinnamon
ice cream on the side.

Casa do Franco in Victoria is pretty good, but the service was slower than
ideal, and in particular we had to wait a while to order. The food was nice,
but the restaurant felt expensive and a little “big box”, lacking something in
ambience. So although we like Portuguese food, I’m not sure if we’d return
here. However, as there are many other restaurants in this development, we’ll
no doubt be back in the area to try another soon. 

.. carousel::
   :name: casa-do-frango
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/friday-night-dinners/
   :casa-do-frango-1: Salgadinhos
   :casa-do-frango-2: Lamb Chops
   :casa-do-frango-3: House Rice
   :casa-do-frango-4: Beef Skewers
   :casa-do-frango-5: Pastel de Nata
   :casa-do-frango-6: Bolo do Bolocha
