Friday Night Dinner: Artean
===========================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: Paseo Colón 11, San Sebastián, Spain
   :Date: 2025-07-18 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: artean
   :URL: https://www.arteansansebastian.com/eng/
   :Costs: €7.5-€16; Mains: €22-€42; Desserts: ~€9; Wines from €28
   :Rating: 5
   :Author: Derick Rethans

San Sebastián, a city in the basqueland region of Northern Spain, is known as
a culinary hot spot. It is therefore not short of plenty of pinxtos
restaurants, fine dining, and a galaxy of Michelin stars.

Artean is a small restaurant in the Gross area, not far from the beach. It has
twelve seats, at the bar only. The bar chairs are comfy, and sitting at the
bar creates an intimate atmosphere. The chefs are from Peru, and have worked
in Michelin starred places, but the person serving was Danish. Artean does not
have a start (yet?).

We were the first customers that evening and got to choose our seats, which we
did, near the kitchen towards the end of the bar counter.

They offer a seven-course tasting menu (at €90), but also have an à la carte
menu. We picked our meal from the latter. As our starters, we picked a
selection of tapas. While waiting for them to be served, a lovely bread and a
shot glass of a fresh and flavoursome gazpacho got us in the mood. A lovely
crisp white Leirana wine made it to our table too.

Our selection started with dressed oysters, and topped with salmon roe, served
in a boat shaped bowl. They were slightly acidic, but the dressing toned it
nicely down. Fat and juicy anchovies on toast, with a nice layer of butter in
between then followed. And finally a duo of scallop gildas. Each consistent of
two scallop halves slightly seared, on a bed of creamed parmigiana reggiano,
roasted tomato, and topped with an olive, some anchovies and pine nuts. It was
plated up right in front of us.

After the starters we each chose a different main. My wife selected the catch
of the day, a moist piece of hake on a pea oil, served with a couple grilled
shrimps with a piece of samphire on top, which was delicious. I decided on the
grilled octopus with green beans and pine nuts. It was a little sticky from a
dressing, and cooked perfectly with a little bounce.

After we finished our meal, we moved to a separate set of stools in front of
their window for our dessert. That was all our doing as we had probably been a
little slow with dinner. Here we enjoyed a dessert wine each, and a sheep's
milk curd, topped with blue cheese, cider ice cream. Yum!

Artean was a perfect meal, incorporating local flavours and ingredients with
hints of Peru. And all at a very reasonable price. We would certainly return
if we're in town again.

.. carousel::
   :name: artean
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/friday-night-dinners/
   :artean-1: Dressed Oysters
   :artean-2: Anchovies on Toast
   :artean-3: Scallop Gildas
   :artean-4: Hake, the Catch of the Day
   :artean-5: Grilled Octopus
   :artean-6: Sheep Milk's Curd with Cider Ice Cream and Blue Cheese
