Friday Night Dinner: Lore of the Land
=====================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 4 Conway Street, London W1T 6BB
   :Date: 2025-02-07 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: lore-of-the-land
   :URL: https://gritchiepubs.com/
   :Costs: Starters: £6.50-£14; Mains: £22-£32; Wines from £37
   :Rating: 4
   :Author: Derick Rethans

This is our second visit to Lore of the Land, but that was before Friday Night
Dinners. On that occasion we went because they make their own beers (Gritchie
Brewing Company). This time, we went because of a specific event: a Burns
Supper.

Burns Night, January 25th, is when the Scot celebrate the life and poetry of
the poet Robert (Robbie) Burns. It is traditional to serve haggis, neeps
(swede), and tatties (potatoes); and of course a wee dram to toast with.

But this is a blog about dinner.

Our dinner started with some bannock bread and a Whisky Mac upon arrival. Soon
we were tucking in into our starters, some whisky cured salmon tartlets,
followed by hand dived scallops with cauliflower purée. The latter was also
served with slices of picked cauliflower.

In between the starters and mains we had a whisky tasting of Crabbie and
Bonnington malts. To be honest, the whiskies (and especially the 30-year-old
one) were disappointing. They were mostly young and had very little flavour.
But the experience of a guided whisky tasting was lovely, and other people
around our shared table were very much more liking it. I think we are spoiled.

Before we started with our main, the Haggis was "piped in", and announced
through Robbie's poem "Address to a Haggis". The haggis was well spiced, the
mash was smooth, and the neeps just slightly mushy. Some fried onions were
sprinkled on top, and a whisky cream sauce poured over.

After our meal, and during pudding (shortbread with Caledonian Cream and
Marmalade) there were toasts to the lassies, and replies to the laddies — a
humorous and mostly clean episode.

We enjoyed our dinner, and it was nicer than at Brown's last year. Although
the whiskies weren't too much to our liking, we still had an enjoyable
evening. I think we'll try to find a different venue for a burns night dinner
next year though.

.. carousel::
   :name: lore-of-the-land
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/friday-night-dinners/
   :lore-of-the-land-1: Bannock Bread
   :lore-of-the-land-2: Whisky Cured Salmon Tartlets
   :lore-of-the-land-3: Scallops with Cauliflower Purée
   :lore-of-the-land-4: Haggis, Neeps, and Tatties
   :lore-of-the-land-5: Shortbread with Caledonian Cream
