Friday Night Dinner: Mowgli
===========================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 5 Charlotte Street, W1T 1RE, London
   :Date: 2025-04-25 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Cuisine: Indian
   :Short: mowgli
   :URL: https://www.mowglistreetfood.com/
   :Costs: Dishes for sharing: £6.50-£11; Sharing Platters: £25-£35; Cocktails: £8.75-£10.50; Wines from £26
   :Rating: 4
   :Author: Derick Rethans

Mowgli is situated on Charlotte Street, not far from Tottenham Court Road and
Oxford Street. A section of this street is dedicated to restaurants. You can
find anything there. Mowgli is a new addition, replacing Côte, which has gone
from this location and many others.

Mowgli is part of a chain, that specialises in Indian Street Food. When we
arrived, was a good buzz in the restaurant, with half of the tables full.
Unlike last week, we were not the youngest.

We didn't fancy wine, and instead enjoyed a cocktail. My wife had a delicious
Smoked Cardamom Old Fashioned, and I chose the Masala Espresso Martini.

Their menu is extensive, but almost overwhelmed with choice. As this was our
first visit, we took the lazy option and went for the Street Food Sharer, in
the “meat” variety (vegan and vegetarian options are also available). Our
starters included a trio of dishes: an Indian take on Patatas Bravas, fried
cubes of potato in a sticky turmeric masala, with some raw onion and chilli
sprinkled over it; gunpowder chicken, lightly battered and fried; and the most
delightful yoghurt chat bombs that were crisp and filled with chickpeas, a
yoghurt, and spices. The latter was the star of the show, and as they were
liquid inside, not possible to share. Which was a problem, as we were given
five for the two of us.

The main consisted of three curries (chosen by the chef), rice, and Roti
breads. All three curries (Butter Chicken, Temple Dahl, and Agra Ginger
Chicken) were excellent, although I still find my own butter chicken much
better than anything you find in a restaurant.

The desert was a scoop of ice cream. My wife enjoyed a scoop of mango sorbet,
and I had a scoop of salted caramel to finish our meal.

It was a great and tasty meal out, in a modern, but not loud setting. It's an
excellent place to come for a meal after a busy day of shopping (or not), and
we expect to return to try more of that menu (and especially the yoghurt
bombs).

.. carousel::
   :name: mowgli
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :mowgli-1: Patatas Bravas, Yoghurt Chat Bombs, and Gunpowder Chicken
   :mowgli-2: Rice; Butter Chicken, Temple Dahl, and Agra Ginger Chicken); and Roti
   :mowgli-3: Salted Caramel Ice Cream
