Friday Night Dinner: The Surprise
=================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 6 Christchurch Terrace, London SW3 4AJ
   :Date: 2025-02-28 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: surprise
   :URL: https://www.thesurprise-chelsea.co.uk/
   :Costs: Starters: £9-£12.50; Mains: £19.50-£37; Wines from £30
   :Rating: 4
   :Author: Derick Rethans

We were determined not to do a "Valentine's Meal", you know, the ones that are
cringe, start with a welcome glass of cheap fizz, have a special overpriced
set menu, and are just a bit cheesy all round. Instead of that, my wife had
booked a table at The Surprise, a gastropub in Chelsea that decidedly did not
have a Valentine's Day Menu.

We were set in a small back room, and getting there meant wrestling through a
throng of people hanging out at the busy bar. 

As our starter, we shared chicken and blue cheese croquets, which came with a
delicious thyme mayonnaise. We ordered a bottle of Riesling, partly because my
wife didn't want to pronounce Gruner Veltliner to the waiter. It was nice and
crisp, and we enjoyed it while waiting for our mains to arrive.

I chose the pan-fried cod. Unfortunately they no longer had that, but after
going back-and-forth with the kitchen, it turned out they could do the same
dish with monk fish, which I indeed had. It came served with mussels and
prawns, some smoked tomatoes and risotto. The ingredients worked well
together.

My wife picked the butternut squash gnocchi, which was a little crunchy on the
outside offering a nice texture, and was served with kale and pine nuts. It
also was a dish that was well put together.

We were still a little peckish, and henceforth decided we wanted some pudding.
Our wine had run out though, so with our desserts — the affogato for her, an
orange cake with chocolate sorbet for me — we also enjoyed a glass of dessert
wine: A sauternes to go with the affogato, and for me a tokaji to go with the
cake and sorbet.

The food was excellent, although the service was a little slow. The staff did
apologise for this, while commenting that this was due to it being Valentine's
Day. It's a great vibrant place for a meal, so we'd go again.

.. carousel::
   :name: the-surprise
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :the-surprise-1: Chicken Croquets
   :the-surprise-2: Monk Fish, with Prawns and Mussels
   :the-surprise-3: Butternut Squash Gnocchi
   :the-surprise-4: Orange & Almond Cake, with Chocolate Sorbet
   :the-surprise-5: Affogato
