Friday Night Dinner: Camino Victoria
====================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 5-6, Zig Zag Building, 68 Victoria Street, SW1E 6SQ, London
   :Date: 2025-05-16 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Cuisine: Spanish
   :Short: camino
   :URL: https://camino.uk.com/restaurant/victoria/
   :Costs: Tapas: £4.50-£22.50; Wines: £29.50-£95
   :Rating: 3.5
   :Author: Derick Rethans

Camino Victoria is a fairly newly opened tapas place in one of the various new
developments on, or near, Victoria Street. It was a nice warm evening, and
lots of people were outside enjoying some food and drinks. If you're not near
Victoria, they also have four other branches in London.

We sat inside in the comfortable seating room, and started ordering our
dishes.

We went for the traditional tapas: Padron Peppers, some were hot and spicy,
and some were sweet and mellow; Tortilla de Patatas, which had a lovely gooey
centre; Patatas Bravas, with a pleasant spicy ketchup sauce; Croquetas, with
its cheesy centre; Arroz Negro, a cuttlefish black rice, with squid ink; and
Talos De Chorizo, soft mini tortillas, with minced chorizo, butternut squash,
and some yoghurt.

There were three talos in the serving, but you can upgrade to have a fourth
one — excellent when you're sharing with two, and frankly something that
should be available for every sharing dish, when the number provided do not
divide between the size of the party.

With our dinner, we also enjoyed a bottle of a really lovely cava, because we
felt like it and it was Friday.

We were in the mood for some dessert, and shared a couple of chocolate
truffles to finish our meal.

All the tapas were tasty and well presented, but not absolutely outstanding.
For that, you'll probably have to head to Spain, and visit a really good tapas
place — we've had bad tapas in Spain too! But if you'd like a taste of Spain
in London, then Camino Victoria will do just fine.

.. carousel::
   :name: camino
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :camino-1: Padron Peppers
   :camino-2: Talos te Chorizo
   :camino-3: Tortilla de Patatas
   :camino-4: Croquetas
   :camino-5: Arroz Negro
   :camino-6: Patatas Bravas
   :camino-7: Chocolate Truffles
