Friday Night Dinner: Veeraswamy
===============================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 99 Regent Street, W1B 4RS, London
   :Date: 2025-06-20 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: veeraswamy
   :URL: https://www.veeraswamy.com/
   :Costs: Starters: £13-20; Mains: £24-£65; Cocktails: £16-£19; Menus: £41/£50/£90
   :Rating: 4.5
   :Author: Derick Rethans

Through the media, we discovered that London’s oldest Indian restaurant,
Veeraswamy, might have to close due to a building redevelopment that will
remove their entrance. The restaurant has been operating in its current
location for 99 years, but unless they manage to change the building owner’s
mind they will have to move out. With that in mind, my wife had booked dinner
for us on a sunny Friday evening.

After going up by lift, we were shown to our table overlooking Swallow Street.
The atmosphere was full of light. We had booked a fairly early table, at
18:15, which meant we could still order from the pre-theatre menu.

I probably would have ordered these dishes anyway, as I fancied the
Anglo-Indian Muligatawny Soup as a starter from this menu. It was just the
right thickness, with good levels of spice. My wife ignored the pre-theatre
menu for her starter, and instead ordered the Calcutta Beetroot Croquettes.
These were crunchy, served with Stilton cheese and the sweet beetroots
inside—it sounds like an odd combination, but worked surprisingly well.

Before and with our starters, we enjoyed some signature cocktails. I had the
Citrus Burst spring special, and my wife had a new Old Fashioned.

As my main, I chose the Grilled Fish Exotica. Which was both spicy and sweet,
with the sweetness coming from small tomatoes. The fish's skin was crisp, and
a serving of plain rice and the crispy naan bread were great for lapping up
the juices from the plate. As her main, she picked the Chicken Dilkush, a
chicken supreme served with a sauce of almond extract, which was also on the
pre-theatre menu.

With our pre-theatre menus we were also given a choice of dessert. I selected
the dark chocolate and raspberry sorbets, and she enjoyed the pistachio and
salted caramel gelato. A great way to finish our meal.

With the rumours of Veeraswamy having to close, we might not have the
opportunity to go back, but if they stay open, we would very much recommend a
trip.


.. carousel::
   :name: veeraswamy
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/friday-night-dinners/
   :veeraswamy-1: Muligatawny Soup
   :veeraswamy-2: Calcutta Beetroot Croquettes
   :veeraswamy-3: Grilled Fish Exotica
   :veeraswamy-4: Chicken Dilkush
   :veeraswamy-5: Dark Chocolate and Raspberry Sorbets
   :veeraswamy-6: Pistachio and Salted Caramel Gelato
