Friday Night Dinner: Cottons
============================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 10 Flagstaff House, St. George's Wharf, London SW8 2LE
   :Date: 2025-08-22 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: cottons
   :URL: https://www.cottons-restaurant.co.uk/vauxhall
   :Costs: Starters: £7.50-£10.50; Mains: £16.50-£27.50; Desserts: £7-£7.50; Cocktails: £13
   :Rating: 4
   :Author: Derick Rethans

It's summer, which means trying out some food from a tropical place makes
perfect sense. Cottons is situated next to Vauxhall Bridge alongside the
Thames. There is a big outdoor space, where in the sunshine, cocktails, and
music would be a ball, but this is a British summer, so it was a bit nippy,
and a risk of rain! Instead, we sat inside the spacious establishment. While
looking over the menu, we figured out it was happy hour, which meant
two-for-one cocktails. That meant two of the same for the price of one, not
two different cocktails for the price of one. And that is how we ended up with
two cocktails each: An Exotica Sour, and a Rum Punch. Both delicious, and
vaguely deadly.

We started of with a starter each. My wife choose the salted cod fritters, and
I had the jerk chicken spring rolls. The spring rolls were served with some
salad and a sweet chilli sauce. They almost had an Asian flavour to it. The
salted cod fritters were served with a spicy tomato sauce.

Mains wise, my wife picked the curried mutton, served with rice'n'peas. The
flavour had a good depth to it, and although it was a little spicy, it wasn't
overpowering. The meat was soft and tender. As my main, I selected the pork
ribs and fried chicken combo. The ribs came in a fairly spicy sauce, which
worked well. The red and green chillies that were sprinkled over them, did not
add much heat. The fried jerk chicken was a little too salty to my liking, but
the sauce that was coating the ribs fixed that soon. Some fried plantains and
rice'n'peas completed the meal. The sweetness of the plantains helped with
balancing the heat.

We were quite full after this, and decided against pudding while finishing the
last of our (second) cocktail.

The restaurant has a good atmosphere, the service was speedy and attentive,
and the food delicious and affordable. It's a great spot near the river, and
if the sun comes out there will be a Caribbean atmosphere too.

.. carousel::
   :name: cottons
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/friday-night-dinners/
   :cottons-2: Jerk Chicken Spring Rolls
   :cottons-3: Salted Cod Fritters
   :cottons-4: Pork Ribs and Fried Chicken
   :cottons-5: Curried Mutton
   :cottons-1: Rum Punch and Excotica Sour Cocktails
