Friday Night Dinner: Casa Felicia
=================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 79 Salusbury Road, London, NW6 6NH, United Kingdom
   :Date: 2025-11-28 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: fnd
   :Cuisine: Italian
   :Short: casa-felicia
   :URL: https://casa-felicia.uk/
   :Costs: Starters: £5-£15; Pasta: £17-£21; Secondi: £23-£45; Dolci: £9-£11; Wines from £30
   :Rating: 4
   :Author: Derick Rethans

Casa Felicia is close to home, and sits on a stretch near Queen's Park tube
station with many other restaurants. It has recently opened, but it was full
on this drizzly evening. Bookings are definitely required.

The menu isn't very extensive. A few starters and pasta dishes, which are
supplemented by a few special "secondi" from a black board menu. The menu
however, was entirely in Italian, which required a translation service to
navigate. A short description under each of the titles would have really
helped, as would the menu being printed in a darker ink (or the lighting
turned up a little). Clearly we're old, but the menu wasn't that easy to read,
and we noticed a few fellow patrons using their phone torches to see it
properly 

As our starters we shared the Salame Napoli, thicker cut slices of slightly
peppery salami, and the Salsiccia & Friarielli, a deliciously spiced sliced
sausage with a jus, and served with sprouting broccoli.

For our mains my wife chose the pappardelle ragu — pasta in the shape of
butter flies with a spiced ragu, served with chives and cheese shavings. I
picked from their blackboard menu a pork chop, covered in ham, and smothered
in a tonne of cheese. It was just on the "too much" side of a meal, and hence,
we decided not to have pudding as well.

We enjoyed Casa Felicia. There is good food, and a good buzz. It also helps
that it is a fairly short walk from home. Although it's not quite as good as
Ida, I think we would need little persuasion to return. 

.. carousel::
   :name: casa-felicia
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :casa-felicia-1: Salame Napoli
   :casa-felicia-2: Salsiccia & Friarielli
   :casa-felicia-3: Pork Chop
   :casa-felicia-4: Parpardelle Ragu
