Friday Night Dinner: Don't Tell Dad
===================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 10-14 Lonsdale Road, NW6 6RD, London
   :Date: 2025-04-11 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Cuisine: British
   :Short: dont-tell-dad
   :URL: https://www.donttelldad.co.uk/
   :Costs: £10-£14; Mains: £18-£33; Wines from £36
   :Rating: 3
   :Author: Derick Rethans

Lonsdale Road has many restaurants. They come and go, and we've been to plenty
of them in the last few years. But Don't Tell Dad is pretty new.

During the day it's a bakery, but during the evening it turns into a
restaurant. It's hip, so booking is a must.

The interior is modern, and full of wood. It wasn't noisy, and it was easy to
chat. As our starter, we shared a couple of truffle and cheddar beignets —
cheesy balls with shavings of more cheese — and a couple of oxtail crumpets.
These were well braised pieces of meat in gravy, upon soft crumpets with some
fried crumbs for texture.

We did not fancy ordering a bottle of wine, but instead chose to have a cider
with our starter, and a glass of wine each with our main. Unfortunately, the
cider only showed up after we finished our starters.

My wife picked monkfish as her main. This was served on the bone with
artichoke and a dill béarnaise. I selected the roast lamb, which was served
with courgette, chickpeas, and a salsa verde. Both dishes were delicious.
However, to be critical whilst the food and wines were lovely, they didn't
turn up at the same time. Our wine turned up so far in advance of our main,
that we’d nearly finished the glasses of wine when it arrived  

Still feeling a little peckish, we also had dessert. Madeleines for my wife,
and an olive oil and chocolate mousse for me. Both desserts could easily have
been shared between the two of us, and we probably should have. We opted to go
for the matching dessert wines, and again there was a significant delay in
between the wine and the desserts appearing.

Once they finally arrived, the madeleines were soft, but not so crunchy on the
outside. The chocolate mousse was covered in nicely bitter chocolate flakes,
and juicy blood orange.

The food at Don't Tell Dad was very nice, as was the atmosphere.
Unfortunately, the service was very slow with long waits between the courses.
In addition to that, the drinks were served at odd times, and not with the
food which they were ordered to go with.

.. carousel::
   :name: dont-tell-dad
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :dont-tell-dad-1: Truffle and Cheddar Beignets
   :dont-tell-dad-2: Oxtail Crumpets
   :dont-tell-dad-3: Roast Lamb
   :dont-tell-dad-4: Monkfish
   :dont-tell-dad-5: Madeleines
   :dont-tell-dad-6: Chocolate Mousse
