Friday Night Dinner: Locatelli's
================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: Sainsbury Wing, National Gallery, Trafalgar Square, London, WC2N 5DN, United Kingdom
   :Date: 2025-09-19 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: locatelli
   :URL: https://locatelliatnationalgallery.co.uk/
   :Costs: Starters: £12-£17; Pasta: £16-£28; Mains: £19.5-£36; Wines from £35
   :Rating: 4
   :Author: Derick Rethans

We went to Locatelli's, a fairly new restaurant, situated in the redeveloped
Sainsbury's wing of the National Gallery. This meant that we actually had to
go into the gallery to go to the restaurant, including a security and bag
check.

It was a nice warm and sunny evening and when we got there, we walked up to
the first floor and were sat down in quite a nice area. During the evening,
the lighting varied a bit as somebody was seemingly playing with the dimmer
switch inside the restaurant. This was slightly irritating. We really wanted
them to pick a light level, and then stick with it.

Because neither of us were massively hungry, we opted to have one of the
snacks on the menu, rather than a full starter. My wife went for the Parma ham
and Parmesan cheese starter, which came with delightful big chunks of cheese
and a slightly salty ham. I had crackers with sesame seeds, and a full
flavoured, and delicious whipped goat cream.

For our mains, I selected a Stone Bass fillet, which came with samphire, some
mushrooms, and some salad. The fish skin was nicely grilled and crisp, with
the fish flaky.  My wife had a roast chicken, which came with polenta and some
vegetables in a tomato sauce with some crisp sage leaves on top. To drink with
our food, we shared a lovely and fresh bottle of wine made with Caterratto
grapes.

We really enjoyed it, and the restaurant had a good atmosphere. The service
was speedy and friendly from the moment we arrived to the point we left. We
didn't stay for dessert though, as we weren’t very hungry, but the dessert
options sounded lovely… one for another visit, perhaps.

Overall, dining in part of a gallery, located on the first floor adjacent to a
gift shop is slightly strange.  But the meal was tasty, the service and
ambience lovely, and it was fairly good value for a central London location.

It would be a good place to go on a date, or if you just fancied a meal after
some sightseeing, or gallery touring.

.. carousel::
   :name: locatelli
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :locatelli-1: Sesame Crackers with Whipped Goat Cream
   :locatelli-2: Parma Ham with Parmesan Cheese Cubes
   :locatelli-3: Stone Bass Fillet
   :locatelli-4: Roast Chicken
