Friday Night Dinner: The Devonshire Arms
========================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 37 Marloes Road, London W8 6LA
   :Date: 2025-01-24 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: devonshire-arms
   :URL: https://www.thedevonshirearmskensington.co.uk
   :Costs: Starters: £5-£13.30; Mains: £17-£33; Wines from £31
   :Rating: 4
   :Author: Derick Rethans

Not to be confused with "The Devonshire", an extremely popular pub, near
Piccadilly Circus, which we also have `reviewed
<https://friday-night-dinners.co.uk/devonshire-iph>`_.

The Devonshire Arms is a cosy pub situated in Kensington, between Earls Court
and High Street Kensington tube stations. The pub itself has the feel of a
local, but upmarket boozer—it is Kensington—where everyone (not just the
locals) are welcome.

We had a cheeky half when waiting for our table to be ready. My wife had an
alcohol-free Lucky Saint as she's doing Dry January. It's good to see that
there were several alcohol-free options on their menu.

After a little wait (we were early) we were seated at a cosy table in the
dining room to have a look at the menu.

As starters, we had some Padron peppers, and Wild Boar, pork and ale sausages,
served with an English mustard. That sharp mustard, gave you a good slap in
the sinuses, as all good mustards should.

From their specials menu, my wife chose the fish pie as her main, which was
served with green beans. To accompany it, she had an alcohol-free Amalfi
Spritz cocktail made with Lyres Italian Spirit. It looked like an Aperol
Spritz, but it did not taste like it.

I selected the trout dish, which was served with salsify, roasted potatoes,
and prawns. I also ordered a glass of wine that was recommended on their menu
for my dish. To my surprise, a glass of red wine showed up, and not the
customary white wine for fish. However, to my surprise and delight the
flavours combined well.

After this, we were full enough and had no place for dessert. Our bill came in
at £63 as we had a half-price main course voucher, a special for early
January, without it would have come in at just under £90. The food was tasty,
the service good, and the ambience lovely. A good night out all round.


.. carousel::
   :name: devonshire-arms
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/friday-night-dinners/
   :devonshire-arms-1: Wild Boar Sausages, with English Mustard
   :devonshire-arms-2: Padron Peppers
   :devonshire-arms-3: Trout with Prawns
   :devonshire-arms-4: Fish Pie with Green Beans
