Friday Night Dinner: The Chalk
==============================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 25-27 Tryon Street, London SW3 3LG
   :Date: 2025-08-15 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Cuisine: British
   :Short: the-chalk
   :URL: https://thechalkfreehouse.co.uk/
   :Costs: Starters: £11.50-£22.50; Mains: £23.50-£29.50; Desserts: £11.00-£15.50; Wines from £50
   :Rating: 3.5
   :Author: Derick Rethans

We have been to this location before, which is just off the Kings’ Road in
Chelsea, when it was still called the Butcher's Tap and Grill. But Tom
Kerridge, the proprietor decided to go in a slightly different direction. He
renamed the pub "The Chalk", with an updated concept. Where the original
concept was mostly pub fare with (big) cuts of meat to grill, it is now a more
traditional gastropub with more refined dishes, and less of a focus on steaks
and similar cuts of meat. Overall, we thought it has shifted a little more
upmarket (not surprising given the location), and that perhaps Tom is trying
to emulate of the success of The Coach in Marlow, with its one Michelin star.

The restaurant wasn't quite full when we, arrived and were seated in a cosy
booth in the downstairs area.  We were fairly peckish, so opted for some
starters to get going. My wife had the 'nduja and smoked mozzarella sausage
roll, which had a good kick to it. I picked the cheese and onion scone, which
came with a very generous serving of mustard and herb butter. With our
starters we enjoyed a half of the Rebellion IPA — sadly they had run out of
their other two cask beers, although that does offer an excuse to pop back
another time.

As my main, I chose the rolled shoulder of lamb, with was served with charred
onion wedges, ratatouille, and a crispy parcel. The flavours all worked well
together. My wife enjoyed the butter roasted ray wing, which came with pickled
cockles, diced cucumber, and an anchovy and garlic dressing. As the wines are
fairly pricy, instead of a bottle to share, we just had a glass of wine each
to match our dishes.

We could have left it there, but felt the need to have some pudding as well.
For that, we shared a Chelsea bun sitting in a bath of spiced custard with
dried raisins or currants in, in.

It's still a good spot, but we were not in total agreement whether it had
improved since it was the Butcher's Tap and Grill. We might give it a go in
another year or so.

.. carousel::
   :name: chalk
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :chalk-1: Cheese and Onion Scone
   :chalk-2: 'Nduja and Smoked Mozzarella Sausage Roll
   :chalk-3: Butter Roasted Ray Wing
   :chalk-4: Rolled Shoulder of Lamb
   :chalk-5: Chelsea Bun
