Xdebug Update: July 2025
========================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2025-08-07 15:10 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, php, xdebug
   :Short: xdebug-25jul

In this monthly update I explain what happened with Xdebug development.

`GitHub <https://github.com/sponsors/derickr/>`_ and `Pro/Business supporters
<https://xdebug.org/support>`_ will get it earlier, around the first of each
month.

In the last month, I spend around 14 hours on Xdebug, with 23 hours funded. I
went on a holiday!

Xdebug 3.4
----------

In the first half of the month, I finished fixing the complicated issue with
fibers and path coverage that I wrote about last month. This resulted in the
release of `Xdebug 3.4.5 <https://xdebug.org/announcements/2025-07-14>`_. This
release also addresses an issue where Xdebug called the code backing a property,
resulting in the hooked property's value to change.

PHP 8.5
-------

In the remained of the month, I looked at how best to support PHP 8.5's new
pipes. These allow you to chain method calls together. Due to this, there is
no intermediate value that you can look at in the debugger.

I have created a `patch for PHP <https://github.com/php/php-src/pull/19377>`_
which introduces intermediate steps which `Xdebug can use with a patch
<https://github.com/derickr/xdebug/commit/b6cb3f3e760c886214bfaf9ec7da3844b3c591be>`_
to then visualise the values being send to the next pipe stage.

Right now, this only works for non-closure-wrapped pipeline stages, and more
work is necessary to make this work all nicely. There is some time before PHP
8.5 comes out though.

Native Path Mapping
-------------------

I have started to implement that lines, files, and directories can be mapped
as "skip" — i.e., consider there to be just no code at this location, and
hence don't initiate a breakpoint then. I ran into trouble here, as the
data-structures that I keep to remember mappings can not handle this. It was
only possible to skip single lines with this, but not files (or directories) —
which is what I was testing it with. Stay tuned!

Xdebug Videos
-------------

I have created no new videos in the last months, but I did add some to the
Xdebug documentation as `related content
<https://xdebug.org/docs/trace#related_content>`_ for function tracing, to
demo flamegraphs.

All Xdebug videos can be watched on my `channel
<https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLg9Kjjye-m1g_eXpdaifUqLqALLqZqKd4>`_.

If you have any suggestions, feel free to reach out to
`me on Mastodon <https://phpc.social/@derickr>`_ or via `email
<http://derickrethans/who.html>`_.

Business Supporter Scheme and Funding
-------------------------------------

On GitHub sponsors, I am currently 42% towards my $2,500 per month goal, which
is set to allow continued **maintenance** of Xdebug.

If you are leading a team or company, then it is also possible to
support Xdebug through `a subscription <https://xdebug.org/support>`_.

In the last month, no new business supporters signed up.

Besides business support, I also maintain a `Patreon
<https://www.patreon.com/derickr>`_ page, a profile on `GitHub sponsors
<https://github.com/sponsors/derickr>`_, as well as an `OpenCollective
<https://opencollective.com/xdebug>`_ organisation.

If you want to contribute to specific projects, you can find those on the
`Projects <https://xdebug.org/funding>`_ page.

Xdebug Cloud
------------

`Xdebug Cloud <https://xdebug.cloud>`_ is the *Proxy As A Service* platform to
allow for debugging in more scenarios, where it is hard, or impossible, to
have Xdebug make a connection to the IDE. It is continuing to operate as Beta
release.

Packages start at £49/month, and I have recently introduced a package
for larger companies. This has a larger initial set of tokens, and
discounted extra tokens.

If you want to be kept up to date with Xdebug Cloud, please sign up to
the `mailing list <https://xdebug.cloud/newsletter>`_, which I will use
to send out an update not more than once a month.
