Friday Night Dinner: The Salusbury
==================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 50-52 Salusbury Road, London, NW6 6NN, United Kingdom
   :Date: 2025-12-12 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: fnd
   :Cuisine: British
   :Short: salusbury
   :URL: https://thesalusbury.co.uk/
   :Costs: Starters: £12-£16; Mains: £21-£43
   :Rating: 3.5
   :Author: Derick Rethans

The Salusbury Pub has been a feature of Queen's Park for as long as we have
lived in the area. They recently had a refurbishment, and as we had never
eaten there, we decided to give it a try.

We were on the earlier side, and it was quiet when we arrived.

For our starters, my wife ordered the Parmesan Churros. Instead of them being
sweet as you'd expect in their dessert form, they were fluffy, light, and
savoury, with delightful Parmesan twang. I had a single oyster, which was
served in a cucumber and jalapeño "hot" sauce. It was only slightly spicy, and
didn't overpower the flavour of the oyster itself.

As her main, my wife chose the Roast Venison. It was served with caramelised
onions, some chard, and a jus with cranberries to tie the whole meal together.
The venison itself was perfectly cooked, and still pink on the inside. For my
main course, I selected the Somerset Saxon chicken, served with herb gnocchi
and girolle mushrooms. The chicken was well cooked, and had a well-seasoned
and crispy skin, while the meat was soft and moist. The gnocchi were light,
with the herbs adding some flavour. The girolles and sauce made it all work
better.

We were still a little peckish, and decided to share a dessert. The menu had
an "apple crumble". However, it wasn't an actual crumble, but rather a soufflé
with apple flavour, and some crumbs to add some texture. Some vanilla ice
cream cooled it down a little.

The courses at the Salusbury were excellent, and we should really have tried
going much sooner. As it's pretty close by I am sure we will return.


.. carousel::
   :name: salusbury
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :salusbury-1: Parmesan Chorros
   :salusbury-2: Oyster
   :salusbury-3: Saxon Chicken
   :salusbury-4: Venison
   :salusbury-5: Apple Crumble Souffle
