Xdebug Update: May 2025
=======================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2025-06-08 10:10 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, php, xdebug
   :Short: xdebug-25may

In this monthly update I explain what happened with Xdebug development.

`GitHub <https://github.com/sponsors/derickr/>`_ and `Pro/Business supporters
<https://xdebug.org/support>`_ will get it earlier, around the first of each
month.

In the last month, I spend around 20 hours on Xdebug, with 22 hours funded.

My apologies for missing several monthly reports.

Xdebug 3.4
----------

I spent most of my time this month fixing bugs, resulting in the `release of
Xdebug 3.4.3 <https://xdebug.org/announcements/2025-05-14>`_ on May 14th.

This bug fix fixes a few crashes, and also improves debugging with PHP 8.4's
property hooks, by recognising that they have code attached, and no longer
throwing fatal errors or exceptions in some situations. 

However, it seems that I also might have introduced a `new bug
<https://bugs.xdebug.org/2352>`_ — or perhaps with different code,
this bug now surfaced. Unfortunately, there is no reproducible case for this
specific bug yet, which makes it nearly impossible for me to find and fix it.

Code Coverage with Fibers
-------------------------

In addition to this, due to a `memory leak fix
<https://bugs.xdebug.org/2317>`_, it became apparent that Xdebug does not
handle `code coverage <https://xdebug.org/docs/code_coverage>`_ correctly,
when Fibers are used.

Code coverage maintains a stack to remember which lines, branches, and paths
have been executed. Once a function finishes, the stack element for it,
including path information, gets freed. However, if after freeing code
switches to a different Fiber, with a larger stack, the original stack frame's
memory is still referenced, causing a crash.

The fix for this will need to include switch stacks, not just for normal PHP
scripts as I already do, but also for the one that stores code coverage
information. This is unfortunately not a simple task, and hence, it will take
a while before I can make another bug fix release addressing this issue.

I hope to have that done by the end of the month.

Native Path Mapping
-------------------

I have also continued to work on `Native Path Mapping
<https://xdebug.org/funding/001-native-path-mapping>`_, and can now
successfully debug templates right from within VS Code.

I have created a `teaser video <https://youtu.be/8tHKq_5-cXo>`_ to show it working in a limited fashion.

It does not work yet with PhpStorm due to limitations in the IDE. I have filed
a `bug report
<https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/WI-81344/Cant-Set-Breakpoints-in-Template-Files-Even-Though-I-Added-The-File-Name-Pattern-to-PHP>`_
which hopefully will get addressed soon.

More work is necessary, such as understand that some lines will not have code
on them at all, and adding many more tests. I will also have to figure out
ways to automatically create the source map as I did for the demo in the
video.

Xdebug Videos
-------------

I have created one new video in the last month:

- `Xdebug 3.5: Native Path Mapping Teaser <https://youtu.be/8tHKq_5-cXo>`_

All Xdebug videos can be watched on my `channel
<https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLg9Kjjye-m1g_eXpdaifUqLqALLqZqKd4>`_.

If you have any suggestions, feel free to reach out to
`me on Mastodon <https://phpc.social/@derickr>`_ or via `email
<https://derickrethans.nl/who.html>`_.

Business Supporter Scheme and Funding
-------------------------------------

On GitHub sponsors, I am currently 40% towards my $2,500 per month goal, which
is set to allow continued **maintenance** of Xdebug.

If you are leading a team or company, then it is also possible to
support Xdebug through `a subscription <https://xdebug.org/support>`_.

In the last month, no new business supporters signed up.

Besides business support, I also maintain a `Patreon
<https://www.patreon.com/derickr>`_ page, a profile on `GitHub sponsors
<https://github.com/sponsors/derickr>`_, as well as an `OpenCollective
<https://opencollective.com/xdebug>`_ organisation.

If you want to contribute to specific projects, you can find those on the
`Projects <https://xdebug.org/funding>`_ page.

Xdebug Cloud
------------

`Xdebug Cloud <https://xdebug.cloud>`_ is the *Proxy As A Service* platform to
allow for debugging in more scenarios, where it is hard, or impossible, to
have Xdebug make a connection to the IDE. It is continuing to operate as Beta
release.

Packages start at £49/month, and I have recently introduced a package
for larger companies. This has a larger initial set of tokens, and
discounted extra tokens.

If you want to be kept up to date with Xdebug Cloud, please sign up to
the `mailing list <https://xdebug.cloud/newsletter>`_, which I will use
to send out an update not more than once a month.
