Friday Night Dinner: Kudu
=========================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 7 Moxon Street, London, W1U 4EP, United Kingdom
   :Date: 2025-11-14 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: kudu
   :URL: https://www.kuducollective.com/
   :Costs: Starters: £9-£28; Mains: £24-£49; Wines from £45
   :Rating: 4
   :Author: Morag Rethans

We went to Kudu, a restaurant offering a menu inspired by South African Braai
on a wet Halloween. Let me start by saying, that whilst there were vegetarian
items on the menu, this is very much not a restaurant for those who enjoy a
meat free cuisine.

We started our meal with a delicious tin of freshly baked bread, about the
size of a large American muffin, helpfully portioned into four pieces. This
was accompanied by a dish of a very tasty melted butter, featuring bits of
bacon for the bread to be dipped into. This flavoursome starter set the tone
for the mains.

We enjoyed a spatchcock poussin which was coated in something slightly
crunchy, salty, spicy — and delicious. The poussin was moist and tender and
came off the bone very easily. Alongside this we had the lamb, which came on
the bone, and partly sliced. This too had some sort of marinade or spicing
applied, and was also tasty. If I'm being very critical, perhaps the fat could
have been rendered a little more. We also had with our mains a dish of roasted
carrots draped in a curry-ish, sauce, and in some ways I wish I'd had two of
those. But alas with all the meat, there really was no room.

From our high table seat we could see across about half the restaurant, which
was busy. We noticed that many diners were unable to finish their food, so
there were many "doggy bags" of leftovers being packaged up. We didn't need to
do a takeaway, but this is only because we were more restrained on the side
dishes.

We'd go to Kudu again, but next time I'd probably have the spatchcock chicken
between two, and a few of the sides and snack dishes to go with it.

.. carousel::
   :name: kudu
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :kudu-1: Freshly Baked Bread with Melted Butter
   :kudu-2: Spatchcock Poussin
   :kudu-3: The Lamb
   :kudu-4: Curried Carrots
