Xdebug Update: June 2025
========================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: London, UK
   :Date: 2025-07-03 15:10 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, php, xdebug
   :Short: xdebug-25jun

In this monthly update I explain what happened with Xdebug development.

`GitHub <https://github.com/sponsors/derickr/>`_ and `Pro/Business supporters
<https://xdebug.org/support>`_ will get it earlier, around the first of each
month.

In the last month, I spend around 22 hours on Xdebug, with 21 hours funded.

Xdebug 3.4
----------

I spend most of the time this month working on bug fixes, resulting in the
mid-month release of Xdebug 3.4.4. Most of the fixes revolved around
exceptions and generating stack traces for them.

While fixing these, I also stumbled upon another `bug
<https://bugs.xdebug.org/2354>`_. The issue here was that Xdebug wouldn't
include the argument name for ``__invoke()`` call frames in its output. This
only matters to PHP 8.1 and before though.

The rest of the month I spend on trying to resolve the
code-coverage-with-fibers issue that I wrote about last month.

I now have a `Pull Request <https://github.com/xdebug/xdebug/pull/1025>`_ that
addresses the original bug and crash, but it does not yet fix all the problems
that I discovered while running the test suite of `reactphp/async
<https://github.com/reactphp/async>`_ with code coverage enabled. Therefore I
did not manage to make another release this month addressing this issue. I
hope to finalise this by the end of July.

Native Path Mapping
-------------------

I have only played around with this during some demos in presentations showing
this feature, but I did not make any progress with the feature itself.

It also seems that the PhpStorm team has looked at my `bug report
<https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/WI-81344/Cant-Set-Breakpoints-in-Template-Files-Even-Though-I-Added-The-File-Name-Pattern-to-PHP>`_
either.

Xdebug Videos
-------------

I have created one new video in the last months:

- `Xdebug 3.5: Native Path Mapping Teaser <https://youtu.be/8tHKq_5-cXo>`_

All Xdebug videos can be watched on my `channel
<https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLg9Kjjye-m1g_eXpdaifUqLqALLqZqKd4>`_.

If you have any suggestions, feel free to reach out to
`me on Mastodon <https://phpc.social/@derickr>`_ or via `email
<http://derickrethans/who.html>`_.

Business Supporter Scheme and Funding
-------------------------------------

On GitHub sponsors, I am currently 42% towards my $2,500 per month goal, which
is set to allow continued **maintenance** of Xdebug.

If you are leading a team or company, then it is also possible to
support Xdebug through `a subscription <https://xdebug.org/support>`_.

In the last month, no new business supporters signed up.

Besides business support, I also maintain a `Patreon
<https://www.patreon.com/derickr>`_ page, a profile on `GitHub sponsors
<https://github.com/sponsors/derickr>`_, as well as an `OpenCollective
<https://opencollective.com/xdebug>`_ organisation.

If you want to contribute to specific projects, you can find those on the
`Projects <https://xdebug.org/funding>`_ page.

Xdebug Cloud
------------

`Xdebug Cloud <https://xdebug.cloud>`_ is the *Proxy As A Service* platform to
allow for debugging in more scenarios, where it is hard, or impossible, to
have Xdebug make a connection to the IDE. It is continuing to operate as Beta
release.

Packages start at £49/month, and I have recently introduced a package
for larger companies. This has a larger initial set of tokens, and
discounted extra tokens.

If you want to be kept up to date with Xdebug Cloud, please sign up to
the `mailing list <https://xdebug.cloud/newsletter>`_, which I will use
to send out an update not more than once a month.
