Friday Night Dinner: Oystermen
==============================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 32 Henrietta Street, London, WC2E 8NA, United Kingdom
   :Date: 2025-10-03 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: oystermen
   :URL: https://www.oystermen.co.uk/
   :Costs: Oysters: £3.25-£6 (each); Starters: £11-£15; Mains: £23-£26; Wines from £25
   :Rating: 4
   :Author: Derick Rethans

The Oystermen is a restaurant not far from Covent Garden. We've been before,
but many years ago, probably pre-pandemic. As the name suggests they
specialise in oysters and henceforth we had plenty of them.

For our starter we picked a raw Jersey rock oyster each, which were fresh and
delicious. However, this spot also does cooked oysters, which is more unusual,
so we also enjoyed a couple of seaweed oysters which were served with a
seaweed butter, and two tempura oysters.

As our arrival drink we fancied a cocktail, and we're quite keen on Martinis.
We decided to have a Martini with an oyster in it, because, you know… when at
an oyster restaurant! It worked even better after we added a drop of the
leftover oyster juice to our cocktail. The Oyster garnish took the place of
the more usual olive and added a similar salty, briny tang. Definitely one to
try if you get the opportunity.

For our mains my wife ordered a mackerel, which came with a horseradish sauce.
I ordered the Gurnard, curried, with a few chilli flakes. We also chose to
have some fries on the side. These were crispy, with a lightly spiced coating
which worked well with both main courses. We also ordered a glass of
Chardonnay each.

We still fancied a digestif. My wife had a glass of the Sazerac Straight Rye,
which in my opinion could have done with a bit of ice. I selected a Somerset
cider brandy, which I had never had before.

We really enjoyed our time at the Oystermen. The food is excellent, the
ambience is great, and on top of that they play recordings of the shipping
forecast in the toilets, which are located downstairs. I think we'll be back
at some point.

.. carousel::
   :name: oystermen
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-blog-photos.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/friday-night-dinners/
   :oystermen-1: Jersey Rock Oysters
   :oystermen-2: Seaweed and Tempura Cooked Oysters
   :oystermen-3: Curried Gurnard
   :oystermen-4: Mackerel with Horseradish Sauce
   :oystermen-5: Oyster Martini
   :oystermen-6: Spiced Fries
