Friday Night Dinner: Spicy Grill
================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 122 Golders Green Road, London NW11 8HB
   :Date: 2025-08-29 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Short: spicy-grill
   :URL: https://www.thefork.co.uk/restaurant/spicy-grill-r839044 
   :Costs: Starters: £3.00-£7.50; Mains: £9.50-£13.50
   :Rating: 4
   :Author: Derick Rethans

We don't usually venture out to this part of North London, but on this warm
Friday evening we found ourselves at Spicy Grill, a Korean BBQ restaurant in
Golders Green. There is a large Jewish presence in this area, which meant that
about half the restaurants were closed, due to it being a Friday evening.

The restaurant itself is an open space with a scattering of smaller tables
along the walls, and a larger table for groups in the middle. Each table has
its own grill.

The menu is extensive, with salads, appetizers, tempura, different meats for
barbecuing, and even seafood. You can grill it yourself, or the kitchen can do
it for you.

We settled for some pumpkin croquettes and seaweed rolls to start. The
croquettes had a crumbly coating, and were slightly spiced. The seaweed rolls
were crunchy on the outside and filled with glass noodles. There were served
with a sweet and sour dip, that worked well with it.

For our mains, we ordered Bulgogi marinated beef and pork belly. We opted to
have the grill on, and cook these ourselves. The pieces of meat were sliced
thinly which meant for a quick cooking time. With this, we had some steamed
rice and a selection of sauces. We thought that this would not be enough for
the two of us, so we also picked a fried tofu salad. This wasn't really needed
though, but still enjoyable to have some freshness. The tofu was prepared to
actually have some flavour. With our mains, we also enjoyed a bottle of Cass,
a Korean lager.

It was a good spot, although a little far away. We were the only two
non-Korean-looking people in the restaurant, which probably says something
about its authenticity. If you're in the area, then Spicy Grill will provide a
solid meal at a reasonable price. When walking to catch the bus home, we
noticed another Korean barbecue restaurant, which may get a visit on another
day.

.. carousel::
   :name: spicy-grill
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :spicy-grill-1: Pumpkin Croquettes and Seaweed Rolls
   :spicy-grill-2: Steamed Rice and Sauces
   :spicy-grill-3: Tofo Salad
   :spicy-grill-4: Pork Belly on the Grill
