Friday Night Dinner: Maggie Jones's
===================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 6 Old Court Place, London, W8 4PL, United Kingdom
   :Date: 2026-01-23 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Cuisine: British
   :Short: maggie-jones
   :URL: https://maggie-jones.co.uk/
   :Costs: Starters: £12-£15; Mains: £31-£44; Puddings: £9; Set Menu at £37.95 for two courses, or £44.95 for three; Wines from £31.50
   :Rating: 4.5
   :Author: Derick Rethans

Maggie Jones's has recently reopened after a fire, but it has been on its
location since 1964. It's situated at the east end of Kensington High Street,
near Kensington Palace, tucked away just off the main road. The interior is
what might be described as cosily rustic, with vintage china old metal
advertising signs, and downstairs much of the seating is provided by wooden
high backed benches, alongside somewhat battered wooden tables.

The restaurant specialises in classic British food, and the menu on the day we
ate there included classics such as roast rump of Lamb, Guinea Fowl, Fish Pie,
and Steak & Kidney Pie. The puddings are also British classics. Beyond the à
la carte menu, there is also a set menu, which had many tasty sounding
options.

We went on a cold January evening, and were welcomed into the cosy restaurant
with a serving of rustic bread and butter. For her main, my wife ordered the
fish pie, which was stuffed with fish and seafood, including prawns and
salmon, and topped with a fluffy mash, slightly charred and crisp on top. I
chose the roast lamb rump, which was (like all their mains) also served with
mashed potatoes. Although I think my own mashed potatoes are better — I add a
*lot* of butter —  the roast lamb was probably the best one I have ever had. I
ordered it medium, and it was exactly that. Slightly caramelized on the
outside, and pink and moist in the middle. It was seasoned with a rosemary and
garlic breadcrumbs which added a lovely sweet twang, and some texture.

We followed our mains with some piping hot desserts. An apple crumble with a
boat of custard (really too much custard), and my wife had a soft bread and
butter pudding, which had a bit of spice and some plump raisins providing
texture.

Maggie Jones's hit the spot really well, with bold flavours in a cosy
environment, especially on this cold winter evening. We'd gladly take friends
and family there on a return visit.

.. carousel::
   :name: maggie-jones
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :maggie-jones-1: Fish Pie
   :maggie-jones-2: Roast Lamb Rump
   :maggie-jones-4: Bread and Butter Pudding
   :maggie-jones-5: Apple Crumble
   :maggie-jones-3: Mashed Potato
