Friday Night Dinner: Pyrá
=========================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 6A-8A Lonsdale Road, London, NW6 6RD, United Kingdom
   :Date: 2026-01-02 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: fnd
   :Cuisine: Greek
   :Short: pyra
   :URL: https://www.pyralondon.com/
   :Costs: Starters: £7-£18; Mains: £14-£26; Wines from £28
   :Rating: 3
   :Author: Morag and Derick Rethans

Pyrá is a recent addition to the line-up of restaurants on Lonsdale Road.
Their menu is on the shorter side, and they also cater for parties. When we
rocked up, there was a wedding reception going on in their loft. Pyrá has a
menu with both Greek and Spanish influences, a more unusual combination, but
one which on reading appeared to work well. We shared a portion of the chorizo
and manchego croquettes. These were a little spicy and salty, including some
chunky bits of manchego.

For our main courses, I picked the deconstructed lamb gyros, which came served
with fluffy flatbreads, chips, a chilli dip, tzatziki, and an onion and tomato
salad. My wife chose the roasted Merton sole, with saffron rice, and oyster
mushrooms. It came served whole, with a dressing of some lemon and roasted
garlic. However, service was slow, with a noticeable wait until the mains
showed up, and then the mains not being served together. My wife's sole
eventually appeared almost half an hour after the gyros. This may have been
due to the large party upstairs, but no warning was given of a possible delay,
and no apology was forthcoming either. Overall, this wasn't the most positive.

The food (when it came) was nice and well cooked, and the portions were fairly
generous, which meant that we skipped dessert.

We enjoyed Pyrá, but the long wait in between our main dishes being served let
them down, and would probably mean it was not our first choice in Queens Park
for a revisit.

.. carousel::
   :name: pyra
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :pyra-1: Chorizo and Manchego Croquettes
   :pyra-2: Deconstructed Lamb Gyros
   :pyra-3: Dips
