Friday Night Dinner: The Porter's Table
=======================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 28 Shelton Street, London, WC2H 9JE, United Kingdom
   :Date: 2026-02-06 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Cuisine: British
   :Short: porters-table
   :URL: https://opengatelondon.guinness.com/en/the-porters-table
   :Costs: Snacks: £3-£18; Starters: £12-£16; Grill: £14-£40; Desserts: £7-£18
   :Rating: 3.5
   :Author: Derick Rethans

The Porter's Table is part of the massive new Guinness Open Gate London
development, which features a brewery and tour, a beer garden, and several
restaurants. They have a different approach to the original Open Gate in
Dublin, where they mostly try out new beers on unsuspecting punters.

Where Gilroy's Loft specialises in seafood, The Porter's Table is focussed on
grilling vegetables, fish, and meat. And of course there is a fair amount of
different beers to sample as well.

After finding the restaurant, we soon got ourselves one of those while looking
over the menu.

We originally only chose the frickels as our starter (beer-batter deep-friend
cornichons), but after realising that we didn't have any vegetables with our
mains, we decided to add the seasonal Brussels sprouts. When these came (after
the frickels, and before the mains), we were glad that we did. They were
prepared with beetroot and orange, which made for a delightful combination.

For her main, my wife had the butcher's skewer; lovely cubes of rib-eye,
marinated, and grilled on a skewer with red peppers, tomatoes, and red onion
slices. I had the pork chop, which came with half a roasted bulb of garlic,
cut through horizontally. I enjoyed prising the sweet roasted cloves of garlic
flesh out of the papery skin. My meal was seasoned, and nicely moist. We
ordered some chips on the side, which were crisp and fluffy. The serving of
mayonnaise was too small, but I nearly always find that his the case.

The food was nice, but the service was quite haphazard. Orders went slightly
wrong, and were offered food that we hadn't ordered — nor did the tables next
to us.

We'll likely return to the Open Gate, but probably to try Gilroy's Loft (the
seafood restaurant), or the beer garden with food truck later in the year when
the weather is much improved.

.. carousel::
   :name: porters-table
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :porters-table-1: Frickles
   :porters-table-2: Seasonal Brussels Sprouts
   :porters-table-3: Pork Chop
   :porters-table-5: Butcher's Skewer
   :porters-table-4: Fries
