Friday Night Dinner: Fish!
==========================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: Cathedral Street, London, SE1 9AL, United Kingdom
   :Date: 2026-04-10 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Cuisine: Seafood
   :Short: fish
   :URL: https://www.fishboroughmarket.com/
   :Costs: Starters: £9-£19.50; Mains: £18.50-£32.50; Pudding: £9-£12; Wines from £33
   :Rating: 4
   :Author: Derick Rethans

Close to Borough Market, Fish! is a long-established seafood restaurant, and
along the street from Mallow which we visited a couple of weeks ago.
Fish! is located in a glass lined and roofed building, which I suppose in
summer could get quite warm. My wife — who picks the restaurants — commented
that she had never dined in Fish! but had been fancying trying it for several
years. When we arrived at around seven, the service was just getting going.

We were shown to our table very speedily, by a friendly waiter who briefly
explained the menu. We decided to go for a calamari to share to start, which
came with a very garlicky mayonnaise. An oyster each add some extra flair.

My wife enjoyed a sightly "brunchy" main of smoked haddock with bubble and
squeak, and a poached egg on top — unfortunately the poached egg was set,
rather than being runny. The dish came with a pot of a well-made hollandaise
sauce which finished things off nicely.

I had the roast Sea Bream special, which was served with cockles and mussels
in a slightly spicy tomato-y sauce. The skin was crisp, and the bisque
delicious enough that I ask for a spoon to slurp up the leftovers.

For dessert, my wife enjoyed an apple ice cream with a shot of Calvados,
Affogato style — these paired really well and made a nice change from the
traditional espresso and vanilla ice cream version. I enjoyed a dense
chocolate mousse. Delicious, but probably a little too much!

With our meal we enjoyed a crisp bottle of Txakoli, a lightly sparkling wine
from the Basque region of Spain that we very much enjoyed when we were in San
Sebastián last summer. This paired well with the food and was an immediate
choice when we saw it on the menu.

If you like fish and seafood, we can recommend Fish!

.. carousel::
   :name: fish
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :fish-1: Oyster au Naturel
   :fish-2: Calamari with Garlic Mayonaise
   :fish-3: Roast Sea Bream
   :fish-4: Smoked Haddock Bubble and Squeak
   :fish-5: Chocolate Mousse
   :fish-6: Apple Ice Cream with Calvados
