Friday Night Dinner: Mallow
===========================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 1 Cathedral Street, London, SE1 9DE, United Kingdom
   :Date: 2026-03-27 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Cuisine: Vegan
   :Short: mallow
   :URL: https://mallowlondon.com/
   :Costs: Tasting Menu: £42; Starters: £9-£17; Mains: £19-£20; Wines from £30
   :Rating: 4
   :Author: Derick Rethans

Mallow is a plant based restaurant housed in an old building just outside
Borough Market, around the corner from the Golden Hind.

We picked Mallow, as my wife had heard three separate
groups of people raving about it when she was out and about in London. One group
at the gym, one on the tube, and the third group whilst walking down Regent
Street.

Whilst there were many lovely sounding things on the menu, we opted for the
set sharing menu, with wine pairing, as an introduction to what Mallow had to
offer.

The menu started with some plump Gordal olives, alongside some pimped up
hummus (or tahini chickpeas as the menu puts it), served with squashy flat
bread. We also enjoyed some tofu in a smoky red pepper sauce topped with some
pickled veggies — there was a slight aniseed flavour which my wife is normally not a
fan of, but found it palatable enough. Our starters were paired with a
fragrant rosé wine.

The middle courses were a mushroom tortellini (which the table next door
decided against, as its "default veggie you get everywhere"), and a mixed
salad. The tortellini was tasty, with a good mushroom-y filling. We also
enjoyed the lovely mixed salad with juicy bits of tangerine, a light dressing,
candied nuts, caper berries, and pine nuts. These two came with a
crowd-pleasingly fruity red wine.

Finally, there was a coconut Pasanda curry with cauliflower and tofu cubes. It
came served with a flavoured pilau rice, which included almonds, pomegranate,
and apricots. This was paired with a medium bodied white wine.

We considered dessert briefly, but were both too full, so we called it a
night. We were delighted that when we asked for the bill, the waiter came with
it, and the card machine — no hanging around here.

We would definitely return to Mallow, but would probably pick off the à la
carte menu, and have fewer dishes — but even as people who aren't into a plant
based diet, this was food we enjoyed, and we didn't miss the lack of meat or
fish.

.. carousel::
   :name: mallow
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :mallow-2: Tofu in Smokey Red Pepper Sauce
   :mallow-5: Mushroom Tortellini
   :mallow-6: Mixed Leaf Salad
   :mallow-8: Pasanda Curry with Cauliflower
   :mallow-1: Gordal Olives
   :mallow-3: Tahini Chickpeas
   :mallow-4: Flatbreads
   :mallow-7: Pilau Rice
