Friday Night Dinner: Et House
=============================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 65 Fairfax Road, London, NW6 4EE, United Kingdom
   :Date: 2026-05-08 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Cuisine: Turkish
   :Short: et-house
   :URL: https://www.thefork.co.uk/restaurant/et-house-swiss-cottage-r826215
   :Costs: Starters: £7.45-£10.45; Mains: £17.45-£32.95; Wines from £25
   :Rating: 3
   :Author: Derick Rethans

A couple of months ago, I asked my wife to see if she could book some
different cuisines for our Friday nights out. This request resulted in the
visit to Mriya Neo Bistro, and a reservation at Et House, a Turkish restaurant
close to Swiss Cottage. When we arrived at the restaurant it was pretty quiet,
but we were welcomed in, picking a table up towards the back of the
restaurant. 

For our starters, we shared some Babaganush, which was served with a flat
bread, and Mantar, sautéed mushrooms with butter and garlic, covered in melted
cheese.

For her main, my wife chose the Sarma Lamb Beyti — minced with spices and
garlic, and served in a lava bread with some yoghurt on the side. A spicy
tomato-y sauce completed the dish. I had the Mixed Shish — marinated chicken
and lamb cubes, served with a salad, rice, and bulgur wheat. 

With our meal I enjoyed a bottle of Efes Draft, and my wife a Turkish red
wine.

The dishes were all nicely spiced, not too strong, but with a good flavour.
The meal was nothing very special, but enjoyable and decently priced. We did
order too much though, as the portions were generous.

If you're near Swiss Cottage and fancy a low-key meal, Et House will do just
fine.

.. carousel::
   :name: et-house
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :et-house-1: Babaganush
   :et-house-2: Mantar
   :et-house-3: Mixed Shish
   :et-house-4: Lamb Beyti
   :et-house-5: Onion Salad
