Friday Night Dinner: 130 Primrose
=================================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 130 Primrose Road, London, NW1 8XL, United Kingdom
   :Date: 2026-06-26 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Cuisine: British
   :Short: 130-primrose
   :URL: https://www.130primrose.org/
   :Costs: Starters: £10-£15; Mains: £14-£22
   :Rating: 4
   :Author: Derick Rethans

We became aware of this places through an article that said that Monica
Galetti, from Masterchef and Mere fame, took up the role of trustee and head
chef of the charity that runs this restaurant. 130 Primrose isn't just a
restaurant, but it's a charity built on a social-impact fine dinging model by
using hospitality as a pathway into employment for people with experience of
homelessness.

When we arrived, we had the choice of a few tables, and sat down at a table on
the ground floor with loads of light and soft furnishings — too many pillows,
really. It is a cosy space, and looks really inviting. But we were here for
the food.

For our starter, we shared a baked Camembert with rosemary, honey, and picked
mixed fruit. We used a serving of sourdough to scoop up all the lovely
gooeyness.

Mains wise, my wife selected the pan fried bavette steak, service with a black
and green peppercorn sauce. The peppercorn sauce really did pack a punch.

I had the pan fried sea bass, which came with very crispy kale, and a brown
butter caper sauce, with some extra crispy shallots. A roasted bit of fennel
on the side elevated the dish. We shared a side of green beans.

After our mains, we were not quite satisfied, and therefore shared a creamy
pistachio cheesecake to finish our meal. This was rich with pistachio
flavours, and had some good texture too due to the crushed nuts.

With our meal, we enjoyed a bottle of a Portuguese white wine, which
complimented most of our dishes well.

We enjoyed our time at 130 Primrose. The food was great, the ambience nice,
and the service excellent. Definitely something to recommend if you're in the
neighbourhood.

.. carousel::
   :name: 130-primrose
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :130-primrose-1: Baked Camembert
   :130-primrose-2: Bavette Steak
   :130-primrose-3: Pan Fried Sea Bass
   :130-primrose-4: Green Beans
   :130-primrose-5: Pistachio Cheesecake
