Friday Night Dinner: The Island
===============================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 123 College Road, London, NW10 5HA, United Kingdom
   :Date: 2026-03-06 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Cuisine: British
   :Short: the-island
   :URL: https://theislandnw10.com/
   :Costs: Starters: £6-£18; Mains: £16.50-£26; Wines from £29
   :Rating: 2
   :Author: Derick Rethans

I had many a pint in The Island when I moved to London 16 years ago, as it was
the closest reasonable pub. I don't remember haven eaten there, but having
walked past more recently, I suggested it for a Friday Night Dinner.

On a rainy evening we headed to this pub in the middle of a residential
neighbourhood. It was already buzzing outside, with people hiding away from
the rain under the awnings, smoking away. My wife could also unfortunately
smell this cigarette smoke when seated inside, close to a window, which put
her off the food.

For our starter, we picked a scotch egg to share. It was nicely flavoured with
a runny yolk, and was served with a sweet curry sauce. For my main I choose
the slow roast free-range pork belly, served with white beans, winter kale,
salsa verde. The skin wasn't particularly very crackly, and a little chewy at
times. The white beans were OK, but could have been a bit softer too. My wife
had the onglet steak, which was served with gentleman's relish and fries. The
fries were nicely cooked and crispy, but the steak was cooked medium to
well-done, rather than the ordered medium rare.

But what left down the meal, and the Island experience generally was the
haphazard service. Upon arrival, it was speedy, although my wife, who arrived
first, had to wait quite some time for the table to be prepared. We felt left
to our own devices after our mains. It took a very long time for the dessert
menu to show up, and then a significant amount of time before we could
request, and then receive the bill. 

One of my personal pet peeves in restaurants is that when the bill is
presented, the waiting staff often do not have the payment terminal with them,
and have to go and fetch it separately. This is a waste of everyone's time
especially as we'd like to get going, and I'm sure the restaurant would like
to fill the table with some more paying guests. In this case with the meal
being mediocre it was more annoying than usual. 

Unfortunately The Island didn't live up to my memories, nor our expectations,
and it seems unlikely we'll be back for a meal or drinks.

.. carousel::
   :name: the-island
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :the-island-1: Scotch Egg 
   :the-island-2: Slow Roast Pork Belly
   :the-island-3: Onglet Steak with Fries
