Friday Night Dinner: Pho
========================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 102 Baker Street, London, W1U 6TL, United Kingdom
   :Date: 2026-07-03 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Cuisine: Vietnamese
   :Short: pho
   :URL: https://www.phocafe.co.uk/locations/baker-street/
   :Costs: Starters: £7.95-£10.50; Salads/Mains: £9.95-£16.50; Beers: £5.95-£6.50; Wines: £23.95-£30.50
   :Rating: 2.5
   :Author: Derick Rethans

Not far from Baker Street station, on the named street itself, is a whole row
of more down-to-earth eateries. Pho is one of them, specialising in Pho, a
Vietnamese broth. It has more of a café lunch vibe, than an evening dinner
vibe, but that doesn't mean they can't crack out tasty dishes for dinner.

We were sat in the back, with some 90s golden oldies playing as tunes.

We shared a starter of pork spring rolls, served with a nước chấm sauce. We
thought it would be more authentic than a peanut sauce. The rolls came at the
same time as our mains, and very quickly after ordering. For her main, my wife
had a green papaya salad, with prawns. I enjoyed the phở xào — wok fried
noodles with lemongrass, chilli, and Asian greens — served with chicken and
prawns. They were both well flavoured dishes, although the chopsticks made it
a bit of a challenge to eat leisurely.

Pho was a quick and tasty meal, but nothing particularly exciting. Maybe we
can try their actual phở in winter time.

.. carousel::
   :name: pho
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :pho-1: Pork Spring Rolls
   :pho-2: Phở Xào
   :pho-3: Green Papaya Salad
