Friday Night Dinner: The Shed
=============================

.. articleMetaData::
   :Where: 122 Palace Gardens Terrace, London, W8 4RT, United Kingdom
   :Date: 2026-06-05 16:30 Europe/London
   :Tags: blog, fnd
   :Cuisine: British
   :Short: the-shed
   :URL: https://www.theshed-restaurant.com/
   :Costs: Starters: £4-£9.5; Small dishes: £12.5-£19.5; Main courses: £21-£38, £72; Accompaniments: £6-£14; Wines from £30
   :Rating: 4
   :Author: Derick Rethans

We had originally booked to dine at Gourmet Sushi before seeing a film at The
Gate cinema in Notting Hill Gate. But when we got there, it turned out to be
closed for renovations, and it was clear no sushi was going to be made there
that evening! After a quick look on The Fork, we found The Shed nearby and
made a really last minute booking. So late, that the restaurant hadn't
received it yet when we got there. Luckily, they had a spot for two, albeit
for a shorter time than normal. That suited us fine, as we were going to see a
film afterwards anyway.

We didn't have an enormous amount of time, and hence we started with something
small. Instead of a full starter, we enjoyed an amuse-bouche first. For me
that was a delightful goats cheese tartlet, and for my wife a mushroom marmite
éclair. Marmite isn't a flavour I agree with, but she loves it.

For our mains, we both chose the Sussex lamb. The lamb was moist and
succulent, and probably one of the best cooked ones I've had so far. It came
with a beetroot salad, which was earthy and complimented the dish well.

With this, we shared a side order of English asparagus, which were served with
a saffron emulsion. Some almond dust added some texture.

We still had some time, and space for pudding. As dessert, we enjoyed sharing
the Rum Baba. It was presented in a boa-bun like contraption with a creaming
rum sauce as filling. Some slightly sour raw strawberries complemented the
sweetness of the dish.

Alongside our meal, we had a bottle of a full flavoured white wine which stood
up well to the lamb.

The Shed was comforting and cosy, with great service. We were a little short
on time, so couldn't try something for a full three-course meal. As it was so
nice, I think we will be back when we have more time, and can book a little
further away in time!

.. carousel::
   :name: the-shed
   :directory: https://s3.drck.me/derickrethans-images.s3.uk.io.cloud.ovh.net/friday-night-dinners/
   :the-shed-1: Goats Cheese Tartlet and Mushroom Marmite Eclair
   :the-shed-2: Sussex Lamb
   :the-shed-3: English Asparagus
   :the-shed-4: Rum Baba
